Electro Volta House, Accra Digital Address: GA-145-7445 corpcomm@vra.com
COVID-19: OUR CORPORATE EFFORTS
Toggle navigation
Home
About Us
Profile of VRA
Our Vision, Mission & Values
Board Chairman and Members
Chief Executive
Management Team
Power Generation
Projects
Tour / Visit our Plants
Our Mandate
Hydro Generation
Akosombo Hydro Plant
Kpong Hydro Plant
Thermal Generation
Takoradi Thermal Power Station
Tema Thermal Power Complex
Takoradi 3 (T3) Thermal Plant
Kpone Thermal Power Station
Renewables
Solar Energy
Wind Energy
Non-Power Activities
VRA Non-Power Activities
Our Subsidiaries
Northern Electricity Distribution Company
Akosombo Hotels Limited
Kpong Farms
Volta Lake Transport Company
VRA Health Services
Property Holding Company (PROPCo)
Our SBUs
VRA International Schools
CSR
Our CSR Efforts
CSR News
Media
Latest News
Archived News
Tenders
Press Releases
Scoping Reports / Notices
Events
Publications
Power Generation: Facts & Figures
Annual Reports
Newsletters
VRA Business Bulletin
VRA Corporate Environmental Policy Statement
VRA Local Content Policy
Framework for Acquaculture Development
on the Volta  Lake
Knowledge Management Portal
Documentary: Oral History of the Akosombo Dam
Vacancies
Contact Us
Our Contact Details
Tour / Visit our Plants
Tour Rates
Business Relations
Home
About Us
About Chief Executive
Emmanuel Antwi-Darkwa
Chief Executive, VRA
A Civil Engineer by profession, Mr. Emmanuel  Antwi-Darkwa, commenced his career with the Volta River Authority (VRA) in 1985  and served in various capacities until the year 2002, when he took up an  appointment at the Ministry of Energy as Director of Power (secondment) until  2009. He resigned from the VRA in 2012, and went into private engineering  consultancy practice until his appointment as Chief Executive. 
With over thirty years of extensive experience  in the energy industry, Mr. Antwi-Darkwa has detailed knowledge in the functional  and regulatory influences in Ghana’s energy sector, and the dynamics of  international power systems development.
He possesses expertise in strategic planning, policy  formulation and evaluation, contract negotiations, as well as the development of  several multi-disciplinary power projects  including the 400 MW Bui hydroelectric power project, and the expansion  of the 220MW Takoradi Thermal Power Plant by an additional 110MW among others. 
He  served on the Technical Committee of the Government Negotiating Team on the  VALCO Agreements and was a Lead Member for the Government Negotiating Team for the Bui Project.  
Mr. Emmanuel Antwi-Darkwa is also experienced in the development  and operation of the oil & gas business including design and evaluation of  international oil & gas transactions, as well as an extensive knowledge of  the various contractual arrangements in the oil & gas sector, including  resource sharing arrangements, taxation, and the evaluation of oil & gas  infrastructure projects. 
Mr. Antwi-Darkwa holds a Master of Business Administration  (MBA) in International Oil & Gas Management, University of Dundee,  UK, a Master of Public Administration (MPA) from Harvard University, USA, as  well as a Bachelor of Science (Hons) Civil Engineering from the Kwame Nkrumah  University of Science and Technology, Ghana. 
He is a member of several professional bodies  including the Ghana Institution of Engineers (GHIE), International Hydropower  Association (IHA), Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE), and the Association of  International Petroleum Negotiators (AIPN).   He also serves on the Editorial Advisory Board of Hydro Review  Worldwide, an international professional magazine on hydropower development. 
Mr. Antwi-Darkwa is a recipient of many recognised  awards including the 2018, 'Energy Personality of the Year'. 
The Chartered Institute of Supply Chain  Management, Ghana, in 2019, recognising his valuable contributions to the  improvement of supply chain management and sound leadership within the  engineering sector, inducted him as an Honorary Fellow.
 
About Us
Profile of VRA Our Vision, Mission and Values Board Chairman and Members About  Chief Executive Management Team Projects Visiting our Plants
© 2020 Volta River Authority. All rights reserved.
Staff Webmail
