BBC Homepage
Skip to content
Accessibility Help
sign-in
BBC Account
Home
News
Sport
Reel
Worklife
Travel
Future
Culture
Menu
More
caret-down
search
Search
Home
News
Sport
Reel
Worklife
Travel
Future
Culture
Music
TV
Weather
Sounds
no
Close menu
BBC News
list
Menu
Home
US Election
Coronavirus
Video
World
US & Canada
UK
Business
Tech
Science
Stories
list
More
Entertainment & Arts
Health
In Pictures
Reality Check
World News TV
Newsbeat
Long Reads
Business
Market Data
Global Trade
Companies
Entrepreneurship
Technology of Business
Economy
Global Education
Global Car Industry
Business of Sport
The search engine boss who wants to help us all plant trees
By Suzanne Bearne
Business reporter
Published
duration
30 August
image copyrightShane Thomas McMillan
image captionChristian Kroll was inspired to change the direction of his life after travelling through India
The BBC's weekly The Boss series profiles different business leaders from around the world. This week we speak to Christian Kroll, the founder and chief executive of internet search engine Ecosia.
Christian Kroll wants nothing less than to change the world.
"I want to make the world a greener, better place," he says.
"I also want to prove that there is a more ethical alternative to the kind of greedy capitalism that is coming close to destroying the planet."
The 35-year-old German is the boss of search engine Ecosia, which has an unusual but very environmentally friendly business model - it gives away most of its profits to enable trees to be planted around the world.
image copyrightJoshi Gottlieb
image captionIt supports 20 tree-planting projects in 15 different countries
Founded by Christian in 2009, Ecosia makes its money in the same way as Google - from advertising revenues. It earns cash every time someone clicks on one of the adverts that appears above and beside its search results.
Ecosia then donates 80% of the profits it makes from this to tree-planting charities. To date it has funded more than 105 million new trees, from Indonesia to Brazil, and Kenya to Haiti.
As obviously not everyone clicks on the adverts, the company estimates that, on average,
it takes 45 searches to raise the 0.22 euro (20p; 26 US cents) cost of planting of one tree.
Today Berlin-based Ecosia says it has 15 million users. This is a tiny drop in the ocean compared with Google's estimated 5.6 billion searches per day, but Christian says he has grand ambitions to "scale massively, win more users, and plant billions of trees".
And unlike the billionaire founders of Google - Larry Page and Sergey Brin - he promises to never buy a super yacht. "While they have big yachts I have an inflatable dinghy that I take to lakes. Ego consumption is not appropriate in a world where there's climate change."
Christian would, in fact, struggle to buy a yacht if he ever wanted one, as he put two legally binding restrictions on the business - shareholders and staff cannot personally sell shares or take profits outside of the company.
image copyrightGetty Images
image captionChristian says he has no interest in super yachts, such as this one - Senses - which was bought by Google's Larry Page for $45m in 2011
Born in the former East Germany in 1985, Christian wasn't always so altruistic. As a teenager in the town of Wittenberg, he and his friends would play the stock markets, often trebling their investments.
He wanted to become a stockbroker, and so enrolled to study business administration at the University of Erlangen-Nuremberg in Bavaria.
However, his world view changed when aged 18 he went travelling for three months through India. "I met smarter people than me who didn't have the same opportunities because they weren't born in Germany," he says. "It started dawning on me that maybe I should do something to make the world a better place."
Then at university he first started to pay close attention to online advertising when he set up a website that compared different online brokers. "I was shocked at how much of my revenue I was spending on Google ads to bring traffic to the site," he says.
And so his idea for what would eventually become Ecosia was born. "It became clear to me that Google had a very smart business model, and it was also fairly obvious that there was space for a purpose-driven search engine to do something similar... to use the money to fund tree planting."
image copyrightJoshi Gottlieb
image captionThe tree-planting projects provide work for local people, such as this Ghanaian farmer
After university he spent six months in Nepal in 2007, where he first tried and failed to launch a search engine to raise funds for local charity and non-government projects. "I didn't know how to launch a business, funds were limited, and most days there were internet and electricity issues."
He then spent 10 months in South America where the level of deforestation that he saw gave him the determination to launch Ecosia in 2009 after he had returned to Germany. The name is a mixture of the words "eco" and "utopia".
Christian says he got the business up and running with the help of others. "The truth is that I didn't have the technical knowledge to do it, but I was able to rely upon the skillset of friends and family," he says.
Today Ecosia employs 70 people, and it publishes financial statements online every month. Last year it had annual revenues of €19.3m (£17.3m; $22.8m), and a pre-tax profit of €14.5m.
image copyrightJoshi Gottlieb
image captionTrees such as the cashew produce a crop that people can sell
All of its electricity comes from solar power, and 80% of its users are said to be 29 or younger.
Its search engine uses Microsoft's Bing's technology, with whom it has a long-term arrangement. "They really like what we are doing," says Christian.
Eric Haggstrom, analyst at business research group Insider Intelligence, says that Ecosia and other smaller search engines face "significant obstacles".
"Most importantly, Google provides the default search for Android devices, and the Chrome browser," he says. "And it spends billions of dollars a year to be the default search provider for Apple devices.
More The Boss features:
The Iranian immigrant who conquered online video tech
The two students who took on Coke and Pepsi
'People told me my plans for a skincare firm were crazy'
The boss who bounced her way to £3m from just £200
"Most users won't use search engines other than their device or browser defaults. And on the ad side, advertisers use Google's search product because it performs [so] well."
Christian admits it "can be tricky", and wants regulators to do something to loosen Google's grip.
But more generally, he wants to see capitalism changed for the better. "This is really needed in the 21st Century," he says.
"What we're trying to do is reform capitalism. I think in its current state it's not healthy. I want us to rethink how business should be, what the role of business is."
Related Topics
Environment
Germany
Entrepreneurship
Berlin
Tree planting
Top Stories
Microphones to be muted in final US debate
The latest updates on the campaign as the BBC asks what the rest of the world wants from America.
Published
duration
19 hours ago
Google sued by US government over search dominance
Published
duration
14 minutes ago
'It never happened' - Exxon clarifies Trump remark
Published
duration
3 hours ago
Features
Why jellyfish could be a 'perfect food' VideoWhy jellyfish could be a 'perfect food'
play
Mud-brick palace in Yemen 'at risk of collapse'
Vietnam faces deadly flooding disaster - Red Cross
How fashion reflects ethnic pride in Ethiopia
The missing dolphin who became an Irish star
Indigenous groups rally in Bogotá over killings
Flock of '140,000 birds' creates record at reserve
Far-right online: 'I got them back on social media' VideoFar-right online: 'I got them back on social media'
play
Undercover in the schools that chain boys. VideoUndercover in the schools that chain boys
play
Most Read
Exxon clarifies Trump phone call: 'It never happened'
1
Robert Redford: Retired actor mourns the death of his son James aged 582
New Yorker's Jeffrey Toobin exposes himself in Zoom call3
Danish submarine killer Madsen caught in prison escape4
The Countdown: Mic dropped, 50 Cent and the Twitch Among Us vote5
New name for a Canadian town called Asbestos6
Samuel Paty: Beheading of teacher deepens divisions over France's secular identity7
France teacher attack: Pupil's father 'exchanged texts with killer'8
US 2020 election: Who does China really want to win?9
Fake naked photos of thousands of women shared online10
BBC News Services
mobile-smart
On your mobile
microphone
On smart speakers
newsletter
Get news alerts
email
Contact BBC News
Home
News
Sport
Reel
Worklife
Travel
Future
Culture
Music
TV
Weather
Sounds
Terms of Use
About the BBC
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Accessibility Help
Parental Guidance
Contact the BBC
Get Personalised Newsletters
Why you can trust the BBC
Advertise with us
AdChoices / Do Not Sell My Info
© 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.
Read about our approach to external linking.
