skip to Main Content
Home
About
Services
Projects
Accessories
News
Contact
About
Home » About
Who we are
Sparcraft Masts in South Africa has a history that goes back three decades. With over thirty years’ experience in mast manufacturing, Sparcraft Masts is the industry’s manufacturer of yacht masts and spars in Southern Africa.
Sparcraft Masts designs and manufactures custom and production catamaran and monohull aluminium rig packages – masts, spars, crossbeams and longerons. We have a well-equipped rigging department that produces wire, rod and composite standing rigging as well as slicing and supplying  running rigging. Sparcraft Masts also supplies and fits Profurl and Facnor headsail furlers, as well as in-boom furlers, We manufacture custom steering systems, hardware and components. The company also refurbishes carbon and aluminium rigs up to 40 m. This includes new rigging, welding services, and CNC cutting. Sparcraft Masts has a machine shop and a climate-controlled spray booth.
The team at Sparcraft Masts have extensive experience in rig manufacturing – many of the key team members have been working together for over twenty years. With extensive experience as sailors and in rigging, the team have a wealth of invaluable practical experience and expertise to provide.
Sparcraft Masts is based in Montague Gardens in Cape Town and is conveniently located to be close to both the boat builders and the port and yacht marinas. Sparcraft masts has 2,000 square metres of covered factory floor space, which houses state-of-the-art fabrication, rigging, fit-out, machine shop and the painting department.
Our Team
Tich Mitchell
Tich Mitchell has been in the mast building business for 38 years. He left the submarine service to join Bellamy Masts in 1981 and there began his ongoing passion for…
read more
Steven Fisher
Steven Fisher, Sparcraft Masts’ Production Manager, has been in the mast building game for 32 years, having also started his career at Bellamy Masts. He has an amazing skill set…
read more
Ian MacRobert
He has 18 years of experience in the mast manufacturing game. His career in mast building began at Sparcraft in 2001 setting up and running the Quality Assurance Programme that is still in place today.
read more
Kevin Foreman
Kevin Foreman plays an important role in the team, looking after Quality Assurance and functionality of the commissioned and dispatched products. He handles the procurement of hardware and stock. He…
read more
Yvette Miller
Yvette Miller is the stalwart of the company. Yvette was also a member of Bellamy Masts crew back in 1988. She was lured back into the Sparcraft team to manage…
read more
Gilbert Cloete
Gilbert has a great ethic of putting his head down and getting the job done and is a stalwart in the design office has been involved with Sparcraft masts for…
read more
facebook instagram youtube
OUR SERVICES
Design and manufacture of rigs
Rigging manufacture and services
Furling systems
Rig refurbishing and servicing
Custom fabrication and steering systems
OUR ADDRESS
Sparcraft Masts
22 Bolt Ave
Montague Gardens
7435
Cape Town
CONTACT US
info@sparcraftmasts.co.za
+27 21 555 3470
Copyright Sparcraft Masts
Terms and Conditions
Back To Top
×
