Home
About Us
History, Certifications, & Awards
Our Team
Our Process
Our Products
Gallery
Blog
Testimonials
FAQ
Contact Us
Menu
2406 J Street
Lincoln, NE 68510
402.475.9663
2018 © Reynolds Design and Remodeling. All rights reserved.
Our Team
As rewarding as Reynold’s history has been, it’s the future that we’re most excited about. We are thrilled to have served hundreds of members of the Lincoln community in creating spaces that focus on their unique needs and ideas. Our success comes not only from our quality of work; it’s a direct result of our attitude, our approach, and the way we treat our clients. We’re flexible and responsive and we work hard to partner with our clients to create and deliver as one team. Each member of our talented, full-service staff is here because they love what they do and can’t wait to see what the future will bring!
Pam Magner, CKD CBD
General Manager / Designer
Pam Magner began her career in kitchen and bath design in 1991 after graduating from UNK with one of the first degrees available in Kitchen Design. She began working for Reynolds Design and Remodeling in 1993 and became its General Manager in 2014. Pam is both a Certified Kitchen Designer (CKD) and Certified Bath Designer (CBD), is an NKBA Design Competition winner, and has had several or her designs published. She is committed to providing excellence in design, construction, and customer service and enjoys working with customers and creating spaces that are unique to their needs. Pam is a professional member of NKBA and former officer and is currently an officer for the Remodeler's Council of the Home Builder's Association of Lincoln.
Kristin Donnelly, AKBD
Designer
Kristin began her professional design career at Reynolds in August of 2011, a few months after graduating at UNK. She received her AKBD (Associate Kitchen and Bath Designer) certification from NKBA in 2012. She is an active professional member of NKBA and is also involved in the Home Builders Association of Lincoln and Remodelers Council of Lincoln, frequently attends the national Kitchen and Bath industry shows (KBIS), and participates in various local community service organizations.
Melissa Kepler
Office Manager
Melissa started with Reynolds Design & Remodeling in July of 2015. She is very excited to join the Reynolds team. Melissa brings many years of experience to her position at Reynolds. Her duties include managing relationships with clients and vendors, coordinating schedules and appointments, compiling client invoices and vendor costs, bookkeeping and office maintenance.
