Skip to main content
Home
Our Team
Leadership
Research Team
Advisors
Retirement Plan Services
Wealth Management Services
Market Commentary
Plan Sponsors
Awards
Contact Us
Advisor Login
Research Team
You are here
Home
Our Team
Research Team
Research Team
GRP Financial’s Research Team is made up of the company’s investment committee and a broader team of experienced and fully dedicated investment professionals responsible for discretionary strategies, communication of economic and market outlooks and assumptions, and primary research on third party investment managers.
 
Chris Karam, CIMA® AIFA®
Chief Investment Officer, Finspire
Justin Fisk, CFA®
Senior Vice President, Sheridan Road Financial
Daren Alcantar, CIMA®
Vice President, Investment Strategy & Analytics®
Jay Sanford​
Director, Investment Strategy, Washington Financial Group
Cameron Cooke, MBA​
Principal & Chief Investment Officer, MRP
Tom Phan, CFA®​
Senior Investment Associate, MRP®​
 
×
Chris Karam, CIMA® AIFA®
As an entrepreneur in the investment advisory and consulting space, Chris Karam serves individual investors, employer-sponsored retirement programs, and investment advisory firms. Passionate about investing and understanding the impact of global events on the capital markets, Chris applies the best practices of institutional and private asset management to enhance the client experience and deliver expertise to advisory firms. He has authored white papers and plan sponsor guides to support that mission.
Prior to founding Karam Capital Advisors, LLC, Chris served as Chief Investment Officer with Sheridan Road Advisors, LLC for 11 years, and with Alliance Benefit Group of Michigan for the 8 years prior.
×
Justin Fisk, CFA®
Justin is a Senior Vice President of Investment Services at Sheridan Road. As a member of the investment team, he utilizes market and portfolio analysis to help make investment recommendations for advisors. Justin is a CFA® charterholder, and has over seven years of experience in the financial analysis.
Prior to joining Sheridan Road, Justin spent more than ten years in process improvement and general management roles across various industries, including management consulting, manufacturing, and healthcare.
×
Daren Alcantar, CIMA®
Daren is Vice President of Investment Strategy and Analytics for GRP Financial. With over thirteen years of experience, Daren has gained a high level of expertise in Modern Portfolio Theory and both quantitative and qualitative investment research. Using a variety of technology platforms such as Morningstar Direct and Markov Processes International, Daren and team conduct indepth analysis and research on vehicles offered in qualified retirement plans.
Prior to joining GRP Financial in 2015, Daren spent six years as an analyst for an advisory group on the central coast of California. Prior to that, Daren served as a Special Programs Underwriter for Fidelity National Financial.
×
Jay Sanford
Jay is Washington Financial Group's Director of Investment Strategy, responsible for guiding the firm's investment strategies and client strategies. Jay leads a team of professionals dedicated to monitoring investments and ensuring a high level of proactive service for all clients. Jay's values and commitment to investment excellence further enhances WFG's efforts to identify the most appropriate vehicles to promote client's long-term goals.
Jay started his professional career in consumer lending in 1995. A year and a half later he moved over to financial services and has work as an advisor for the past twenty-two years. Jay has been a guest lecturer at area universities. He also currently sits on investment committee boards for non-profit organizations throughout the Washington D.C. area.
×
Cameron Cooke, MBA
Cameron is the Chief Investment Officer for MRP. Cameron currently works with MRP's retirement team providing investment analysis, recommendations, and model portfolio asset allocation, as well as defined benefit plan asset allocation. He has also developed mean-variance asset allocation optimization and risk budgeting models for multi-asset portfolios
Cameron has been in the financial services industry for twenty-three years. Prior to joining MRP, he has been an analyst and portfolio manager, since 1994 starting at Wells Capital Management in San Francisco, Invesco Funds Group, Janco Partners and Kummer Financial in Denver.
×
Tom Phan, CFA®
Tom is a senior investment associate at MRP, where he performs modeling and analysis to research various investments. Tom uses his expertise to provide MRP's retirement team with plan lineup reviews and fund manager recommendations. In doing this, Tom helps MRP's plan sponsor clients provide a mix of investment options to help them achieve their long-term goals.
After graduating from the University of Minnesota with a degree in finance and economics, Tom started his career in the financial services industry at Ameriprise Financial. Tom is a CFA® charterholder.
GRP Financial | © 2019 All Rights Reserved
 
4340 Redwood Highway, Suite B-60
San Rafael, California 94903
 
lien.tran@grpfinancial.com
(415) 526-2750
(415) 526-2763
   
Quick links:
All Articles
All Videos 
All Calculators 
All Presentations 
Calculators
FINRA Broker Check
Resources
GRP Advisors are registered representatives with, and securities offered through LPL Financial, Member FINRA & SIPC . Investment advice offered through Global Retirement Partners, LLC, a registered investment advisor. GRP Financial, Global Retirement Partners, LLC, and LPL Financial are separate non-affiliated entities.
The services offered within this investment site are available exclusively through our U.S. registered representatives and are available for U.S. residents only. LPL Financial U.S. registered representatives may only conduct business with residents of the states for which they are properly registered. Please note that not all of the investments and services mentioned are available in every state.
© 2020 GRP Financial . All rights reserved.
