Menu
Home
Forums
New posts Search forums
What's new
New posts Latest activity
Members
Current visitors
Log in Register
What's new Search
Search
Search titles only
By:
Search
Advanced search…
New posts
Search forums
Menu
Log in
Register
Install the app
Install
Forums
General Forums
Small Talk
You are using an out of date browser. It  may not display this or other websites correctly.
You should upgrade or use an alternative browser .
Insurance Fraud for Dummies
Thread starter southsuburbs
Start date
Apr 7, 2011
southsuburbs
What I Live By...
Apr 7, 2011
#1
http://www.philly.com/philly/news/2...ed_faker_who_boarded_bus_after_non-crash.html
If someone were to write Insurance Fraud for Dummies, it might include such advice as: Before you fake an injury, make sure there's an actual crash.
Also, don't get caught on video running a quarter-block to board a bus after an accident.
"It's almost comical," said Assistant District Attorney Linda Montag.
On Nov. 19, 2008, a SEPTA bus made contact with a taxi in the 1300 block of Walnut Street about 2 p.m., she said.
"It was a very small tap by a taxicab. There wasn't even a scratch on the bus," she said.
Yet three people - including two men who ran aboard after the incident - began claiming bodily harm.
On Monday, Ronald Moore, 37, of Philadelphia, pleaded guilty to fraud and conspiracy, and was ordered to pay a $1,000 fine and face two years probation.
Moore has nine aliases and convictions for drug, robbery and other offenses, according to court records.
"He claimed he was on the bus. He was not on the bus, and he was not hurt," Montag said.
Video showed the bus driver leave the bus, then Moore and another man "run down the street, get on the bus and feign injuries, holding their backs," the prosecutor said.
Moore filed a claim, but the other man didn't, so he was never charged.
"I'm not a mind reader, but maybe he changed his mind," Montag said.
Latanya Mathis, an actual passenger, was also charged with fraud and conspiracy, after allegedly lying about whacking her head on a window.
"When you viewed the video, she did not strike her head," Montag said.
 
S
SLT
Active Member
Apr 7, 2011
#2
These were some real dummies for sure....:smh:  :lol:
 
chocalate_topaz
I wanna be your lover...
Apr 7, 2011
#3
What we won't do to get a dollar...:smh:
 
southsuburbs
What I Live By...
Apr 7, 2011
#4
Did y'all think of Ezell falling in the liquor store off "Friday" when y'all read this?!?! LOL
 
S
SLT
Active Member
Apr 7, 2011
#5
I thought of those clowns on Cooley High(yeah, I went way back on ya :lol
when the cars crashed and the man got out yelling "Whiplash! ... Whiplash!"....and the lady in the car yelled out to him, "You're supposed to lay on the ground fool!" :lmao:
 
SUtrp96
HBCU SCREAMING CHAMP 99'
Apr 7, 2011
#6
Them insurance checks be a fool!
I couldn't do it.. I hate when someone is too close to my damn car.... I be like..."Boy/Woman If you don't get that piece of trash away from my car..."
 
You must log in or register to reply here.
Share:
Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest Tumblr WhatsApp Email Share Link
Forums
General Forums
Small Talk
Terms and rules
Privacy policy
Help
Home
RSS
Forum software by XenForo® © 2010-2020 XenForo Ltd.
© 2020 RASHAD INTERACTIVE, LLC - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
PARTNER OF IONE DIGITAL / CASSIUS NETWORK
Top
