Home
Mail
News
Finance
Sports
Entertainment
Search
Mobile
More
Yahoo
Search
Search News
Search web
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Related Content
Mail
Advertisement
Long Island man may have faked own drowning to claim life insurance
Eric Pfeiffer
Reporter
,
The Sideshow
•
August 3, 2012
An aggrieved New York woman has told police that her husband faked his own drowning to collect on a life insurance policy and to abandon his marriage.
"This is a terrible nightmare that I just want to wake up from,'' 43-year-old Evana Roth told the New York Post . "Why did he do this? I think I'm just numb.''
On Sunday, July 29, Raymond Roth, 47, told his wife that he was going for a swim at nearby Jones Beach and would be back in about an hour. However, his son claims that his dad disappeared while out on the water and never returned.
However, Evana Roth says she discovered emails allegedly sent from Raymond to her stepson Jonathan, 22, outlining details of his staged disappearance. After finding the details, Evana then contacted Raymond's brother and the police.
"I need to get to the bank for cash for the trip," Roth allegedly wrote in one email. In others, he instructs his son to not allow his wife to sell their house.
In another email obtained by the Post, Roth writes: "about the jewelry we spoke of yesterday, you need to whisper in [a relative's] ear about it and do not worry she will get it," and, "tell [another relative] i handed you the papers -- then you JUST noticed that there was an envelope with [his] name on it (the last Will and Testemnet [sic]) then hand it to him."
And Roth allegedly tipped off his location at a Florida resort, writing in another email,  "there needs to be a way for me to find out how things are going. call me Sunday night at 8 PM at the resort. "You cannot call from your phone,'' the email continues, "go to a pay phone or borrow your friends phone. you must call within 15 minutes of the determined call time in order to be sure i will be available."
Police in Orlando went to the resort in question but reportedly did not find Roth there. However, another police report in Santee, S.C., says that he was stopped for speeding but let go after telling authorities he had recently been involved in an argument with his wife.
Story continues
"He told the officer that he was having some problems in New York , so he went off to Florida," Santee Police Chief Bing Jones told Newsday .
Roth reportedly tripled the value of his life insurance in the months leading up to his disappearance.
Long Island police tells the Post that it has been in contact with Roth by phone and that he said he was coming in to talk with them. However, the police said it remains unclear whether or not criminal charges will be filed against him. However, the cost of the investigation is already estimated to be in the thousands.
"While I was crying and thinking he had drowned, he was vacationing in a resort and having a drink in the pool," Evana said.
Our goal is to create a safe and engaging place for users to connect over interests and passions. In order to improve our community experience, we are temporarily suspending article commenting.
What to Read Next
House already won? Pelosi thinks so, and reaches for more
Associated Press
Jennifer Garner, 48, once again rebuffs pregnancy rumors: 'Good grief'
Yahoo Life
Democrats warns Republicans they will regret forcing through Amy Coney Barrett confirmation
The Independent
Brett Kavanaugh Just Endorsed A Radical Legal Theory That Could Cause Election Chaos
HuffPost
Matthew McConaughey on raising his children to embrace being affluent: 'Don't feel guilty about that. Own it.'
Yahoo Celebrity
Emily Ratajkowski announces pregnancy in powerful essay
Yahoo Life
Senate confirms Barrett to the Supreme Court
Yahoo News Video
US puts 'threats' from China at heart of India talks
AFP
Cam Newton responds to Jeff Garcia slamming his clothes: 'I'm not changing the way I dress'
Yahoo Sports
Fights Erupt During 'Jews for Trump' Rally in Manhattan
The New York Times
Yahoo News/YouGov poll: With one week left, Biden's lead over Trump grows to 12 points — his biggest yet
Yahoo News
Democrats urge swing-state voters to turn in mail ballots, consider bypassing Postal Service
Yahoo News
Yahoo News/YouGov poll: Despite questions about the 'laptop from hell,' most Americans think the Trumps are more 'corrupt ' than the Bidens
Yahoo News Video
At least seven killed in blast at Pakistan religious school
AFP
Machine Gun Kelly says 'the universe' sent Megan Fox to make him 'a better person'
Yahoo Celebrity
The 'Borat 2' babysitter says she only made $3,600 for being tricked in the film. Now, she's unemployed and feels 'betrayed.'
INSIDER
Jamie Foxx's sister dies at 36: 'My heart is shattered into a million pieces'
Yahoo Celebrity
Atlanta rapper Silento charged with driving 143 mph
Yahoo News Video
Black America will have no one else to blame if we do not seize this moment and vote
USA TODAY Opinion
Former Trump advisor Gary Cohn: Markets are down on the '100% probability' that stimulus deal won't pass before the election
Yahoo Finance
Schumer Issues Warning To GOP: You May Regret This For ‘A Lot Longer’ Than You Think
HuffPost
Household incomes grew more slowly in a majority of states under Trump – even before COVID-19
USA TODAY
Nigeria's police order mobilization after unrest
Yahoo News Video
Sturgeon ponders imposing near full lockdown on Lanarkshire ahead of vote on five tier system
The Telegraph
Yahoo News Network
Help
Privacy (Updated)
Privacy Dashboard
Suggestions
About our Ads
Terms (Updated)
Sitemap
