Sections
Log in
Top News
U.S. News World News Featured Voices
Odd News
Entertainment
Movies Music TV
Sports
Soccer NFL NBA MLB
Photos
News Entertainment Sports Features
More...
Defense Featured Science Health Video Archive Almanac
About Feedback Privacy Policy
About Feedback Privacy Policy
Search
Trending
Moon
Barrett confirmation
Stock market
Russian airstrikes
$1 homes
Joe Biden
Cam Newton
Bee mantle
Antique penny
'The Midnight Sky'
Odd News
June 22, 2012 / 1:47 PM
Woman charged with fraud for fur coat scam
(0)
KING OF PRUSSIA, Pa., June 22 (UPI) -- Pennsylvania Attorney General Linda Kelly said she filed insurance fraud charges against a woman who claimed she lost her mink coat.
Samiha Guirguis, 59, was charged with insurance fraud Thursday, marking the third time she has been accused in a fur-related fraud in 11 years, the Philadelphia Daily News reported.
Advertisement
In 2005, Guirguis put a mink coat in a storage facility in King of Prussia and was given a receipt indicating the coat was worth $1,000. She came back four years later and claimed the coat the company gave to her was not hers although her name was monogrammed inside.
She claimed the coat she put in the storage facility was worth $10,000 and filed a claim for the coat under her homeowner's policy. Guirguis attempted to run the same alleged scam on a different storage facility in 2001.
Guirguis has been charged with forgery, insurance fraud and theft.
(0) Leave a comment
upi.com/3211763
Latest Headlines
Odd News // 17 hours ago
Woman wins $2 million lottery jackpot on way home from voting
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- A South Carolina woman found participating in democracy to be extra rewarding when a stop on her way home from voting led to a $2 million lottery jackpot.
Odd News // 17 hours ago
Lights in Hawaii sky believed to be from 12-year-old rocket booster
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- Experts said bright lights spotted in the sky over Hawaii were likely the remnants of a booster from a rocket launched 12 years ago.
Odd News // 18 hours ago
Man uses mouth to bounce table tennis ball off wall for Guinness record
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- An Idaho man broke a mouthful of a Guinness World Record when he used his mouth to bounce a table tennis ball off a wall 43 times in 30 seconds.
Odd News // 19 hours ago
Steam shovel retrieved after being submerged in lake for 95 years
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- A steam shovel that had been submerged in a Michigan lake for nearly a century has been returned to dry land and is being restored.
Odd News // 19 hours ago
Man finds 222-year-old penny outside Maine church
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- A North Carolina man using his metal detector near a Maine church unearthed a copper penny dating from the year 1798.
Odd News // 20 hours ago
Italian town auctioning off abandoned homes for just over $1
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- An Italian town is looking to draw in new visitors by auctioning off abandoned houses with opening bids of just over $1.
Odd News // 21 hours ago
Man covers body in 140 pounds of bees for Guinness World Record
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- A Chinese daredevil achieved a Guinness World Record when his body was covered in more than 140 pounds of living bees.
Odd News // 22 hours ago
Escaped horse trots through streets of two Washington state towns
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- Police in Washington state said an escaped horse went for a run in traffic and made his way through the streets of two towns before being caught.
Odd News // 3 days ago
Pennsylvania family builds 'Candypult' for safe trick-or-treating
Oct. 23 (UPI) -- A Pennsylvania family family unveiled their secret weapon in keeping trick-or-treating safe amid the COVID-19 pandemic -- a treat-launching "Candypult."
Odd News // 3 days ago
Man's mistake while buying lottery ticket earns him $2 million
Oct. 23 (UPI) -- A Michigan man said he made a mistake while buying his lottery ticket that turned a $1 million jackpot into a $2 million payday.
Trending Stories
Italian town auctioning off abandoned homes for just over $1
Man finds 222-year-old penny outside Maine church
German man sets world record with 516 body modifications
Man covers body in 140 pounds of bees for Guinness World Record
Pennsylvania family builds 'Candypult' for safe trick-or-treating
Follow Us
Sign up for our daily newsletter
Subscribe
Privacy policy
Photo Gallery
 
President Trump, Joe Biden meet for final presidential debate
 
Back to Article
/
Back to top
About UPI Contact Feedback Advertisements Submit News Tips
Copyright © 2020 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Terms of Use Privacy Policy
