Home
Mail
News
Finance
Sports
Entertainment
Search
Mobile
More
Yahoo
Search
Search News
Search web
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Related Content
Mail
Advertisement
Long Island man may have faked own drowning to claim life insurance
Eric Pfeiffer
Reporter
,
The Sideshow
•
August 3, 2012
An aggrieved New York woman has told police that her husband faked his own drowning to collect on a life insurance policy and to abandon his marriage.
"This is a terrible nightmare that I just want to wake up from,'' 43-year-old Evana Roth told the New York Post . "Why did he do this? I think I'm just numb.''
On Sunday, July 29, Raymond Roth, 47, told his wife that he was going for a swim at nearby Jones Beach and would be back in about an hour. However, his son claims that his dad disappeared while out on the water and never returned.
However, Evana Roth says she discovered emails allegedly sent from Raymond to her stepson Jonathan, 22, outlining details of his staged disappearance. After finding the details, Evana then contacted Raymond's brother and the police.
"I need to get to the bank for cash for the trip," Roth allegedly wrote in one email. In others, he instructs his son to not allow his wife to sell their house.
In another email obtained by the Post, Roth writes: "about the jewelry we spoke of yesterday, you need to whisper in [a relative's] ear about it and do not worry she will get it," and, "tell [another relative] i handed you the papers -- then you JUST noticed that there was an envelope with [his] name on it (the last Will and Testemnet [sic]) then hand it to him."
And Roth allegedly tipped off his location at a Florida resort, writing in another email,  "there needs to be a way for me to find out how things are going. call me Sunday night at 8 PM at the resort. "You cannot call from your phone,'' the email continues, "go to a pay phone or borrow your friends phone. you must call within 15 minutes of the determined call time in order to be sure i will be available."
Police in Orlando went to the resort in question but reportedly did not find Roth there. However, another police report in Santee, S.C., says that he was stopped for speeding but let go after telling authorities he had recently been involved in an argument with his wife.
Story continues
"He told the officer that he was having some problems in New York , so he went off to Florida," Santee Police Chief Bing Jones told Newsday .
Roth reportedly tripled the value of his life insurance in the months leading up to his disappearance.
Long Island police tells the Post that it has been in contact with Roth by phone and that he said he was coming in to talk with them. However, the police said it remains unclear whether or not criminal charges will be filed against him. However, the cost of the investigation is already estimated to be in the thousands.
"While I was crying and thinking he had drowned, he was vacationing in a resort and having a drink in the pool," Evana said.
Our goal is to create a safe and engaging place for users to connect over interests and passions. In order to improve our community experience, we are temporarily suspending article commenting.
What to Read Next
Black man shot dead by police in Philadelphia, sparking heated protests
NBC News
Amy Coney Barrett's confirmation shows how the courts will be Trump’s most lasting legacy
Yahoo News
Poland’s new abortion law triggers broader discontent as women lead protests
Good Morning America
Fauci: Early COVID-19 vaccines will only prevent symptoms, not block the virus
Yahoo Finance
Sacha Baron Cohen shares video of scary moment at gun rally that wasn't in the 'Borat' sequel
Yahoo TV
Jennifer Garner, 48, once again rebuffs pregnancy rumors: 'Good grief'
Yahoo Life
Barrett awaits big Supreme Court decisions on issues important to Trump
Yahoo News Video
Malawi judges win award for historic vote ruling
AFP
House already won? Pelosi thinks so, and reaches for more
Associated Press
Brett Kavanaugh Just Endorsed A Radical Legal Theory That Could Cause Election Chaos
HuffPost
Cam Newton responds to Jeff Garcia slamming his clothes: 'I'm not changing the way I dress'
Yahoo Sports
Coronavirus deaths on the rise in the U.S. as experts feared
Yahoo News Video
Election 2020 live updates: Biden in Georgia, Trump makes Midwest swing 7 days before Election Day
USA TODAY
Internet ridicules fast-fashion site Shein for 'awful' bodysuit cut: 'What happened to modesty?'
In The Know
'DWTS' dancer Cheryl Burke suffers scary head injury during rehearsal
Yahoo TV
Trump revives 'Sleepy Joe' attacks, but gets the facts wrong
Yahoo News
Senate confirms Barrett to the Supreme Court
Yahoo News Video
U.S. voter info has always been public — but now it's getting weaponized
NBC News
How to spot voter intimidation and what to do
Good Morning America
Matthew McConaughey on raising his children to embrace being affluent: 'Don't feel guilty about that. Own it.'
Yahoo Celebrity
Fights Erupt During 'Jews for Trump' Rally in Manhattan
The New York Times
Yahoo News/YouGov poll: Despite questions about the 'laptop from hell,' most Americans think the Trumps are more 'corrupt ' than the Bidens
Yahoo News Video
Bloomberg Steps Up Last-Minute Ad Spending for Biden in Ohio, Texas
National Review
Family’s dog turns ‘vicious’ and kills infant as parents slept, Virginia police say
Miami Herald
Yahoo News Network
Help
Privacy (Updated)
Privacy Dashboard
Suggestions
About our Ads
Terms (Updated)
Sitemap
