Home About
Workshops
All Programs Entrepreneurship Continuous Improvement Team Dynamics Interpreting Numbers MBA in a Day Critical Thinking
Clients Contact
Our Experience Can Improve Your Learning Experience
Team Business offers business education programs that improve business decision making through simulations. Our programs improve critical thinking, collaboration and business outcomes by enabling new ways of thinking in a risk-free environment with immediate impact to your business performance.
Home
About
Team Business offers business education programs in the form of hands-on simulations that are designed to teach through experience.
The Team Business experiences use basic financial tools to plan production activities, resource requirements, measure performance and benchmark against the competition. Participants get to observe the outcome of their business decisions, acquiring an understanding of the relationship between decisions made and outcomes realized.
We believe in learning through doing, so we create a safe environment to make mistakes and ask questions. All of the Team Business simulations and programs are designed with the principles of peer feedback, team-building, competition, and communication. Each program is facilitated by an expert certified instructor. Team Business is able to accommodate all levels of learning, from students/interns to C-suite executives.
Learn More About Our Programs View Our Client Stories
See Our Programs in Action
Team Business is honored to work with top universities, colleges, high schools, businesses and organizations.
What Our Clients Say
It was an amazing way to learn about how to minimize costs to maximize revenue. It really brought our team closer together and was very enjoyable.
David Banner | Dartmouth University
We have engaged Team Business every year because they do a remarkable job. They are professional, fun, deeply engaged in the development process, and the results are always stellar. They were instantly open to our ideas and integrated them into their standard program with ease. Their flexibility, business acumen and collaborative spirit makes them a pleasure to work with.
Patricia Hayling Price | Management Leadership for Tomorrow (MLT)
Through Team Business, participants in our summer programs had the opportunity to link theory and practice, learn about business principles and see them play out in real time. The hands-on simulation Team Business runs gives participants subject knowledge and, moreover, the wisdom to turn their knowledge into action.
Dr. Anne Greenhalgh | The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania
Who is Team Business?
Lara Azzam
President, Team Business
Lara Azzam has entrepreneur in her DNA and absolutely loves startups and being part of a start-up ecosystem! Her 25+ year career consists of building ‘firsts’ for companies ranging from non-profits, small and large manufacturing companies, technology companies and universities. The companies ranged from start-ups, including her own, to established multi-billion-dollar businesses. Lara founded Team Business in 2002 which offers experiential learning programs teaching business, leadership and team dynamics.  Lara holds an MBA from The Wharton School and a Masters in International Studies from The Lauder Institute.
André Van Der Bergh
Vice President of Programs, Team Business
Prior to embarking on a career as a facilitator of Team Business programs, André was intimately involved in the retail industry in South Africa and the Middle East for more than 25 years, specializing in process re-engineering and automation. In 1998, André began implementing Team Business programs for his retail clients with tremendous results – for example, one of his clients took 6,000 staff through the program as a part of a successful turn-around initiative. André is certified to facilitate all the programs in the Team Business portfolio and is the primary facilitator in the United States.
Ready for Hands-On, Custom Business Training? Let's Talk!
Contact Team Business
We teach the hard-earned lessons of business through face-to-face experiences.
Pages
Home
About
Clients
Contact
Workshops
All Programs
Entrepreneurship
Continuous Improvement
Team Dynamics
Interpreting Numbers
MBA in a Day
Critical Thinking
Contact Us
Email: info@teambusiness.com
Phone: +1-410-837-1414
