Skip to content
Sections
xml:space="preserve">
Search
xml:space="preserve">
New York
Sports
News
Snyde
Opinion
'Classist and disgusting’: AOC rips Trump for mocking her college degree
Gov. Cuomo, grinning, says boyfriend he claimed to ‘like’ is ‘no longer with us’
Man shoots wife dead on Manhattan street, then commits suicide in front of shocked onlookers
‘He couldn’t move, and the rats were crawling all over him,’ says brother of man who plunged into Bronx sidewalk sinkhole
Woman whose body was dumped behind bush in Queens was pregnant, devastated dad says
50 Cent backtracks on Donald Trump endorsement as Lil Pump takes his place
GOP senators pondering action if Trump loses and refuses to step down, Carl Bernstein says
Police find body of missing rapper in car’s trunk, charge driver with murder
Senate Republicans confirm Barrett to Supreme Court, cementing conservative majority
Homeless man shoots Queens beer store customer after argument; off-duty cop arrests shooter
Man shot in neck on Manhattan subway platform was caught urinating by gunman
DeOndra Dixon, Down Syndrome ambassador and ‘little sister’ of actor Jamie Foxx, dies age 36
Teen arrested after teacher sees him having oral sex with 7-year-old girl during break in online class
NYC families unable to have kids log into online classes fear being reported to child services for truancy
Kevin Durant and Kyrie Irving are collaborating on their signature sneakers
How Amy Coney Barrett fails the religious test: It’s not what you think
Cluster of at least 164 asymptomatic coronavirus infections found in Chinese prefecture
Why Amy Coney Barrett must recuse herself from election-related cases
4,450 pounds of boxed fish recalled from Trader Joe’s stores
Doha airport personnel allegedly conducted invasive gynecological exams on female passengers after baby found in toilet
Advertisement
Advertisement
Crime
News
Leaking body bags, unrefrigerated remains: Colorado funeral homes under investigation
By Jami Ganz
New York Daily News |
Oct 23, 2020 at 5:38 PM
Two Colorado funeral homes are under criminal investigation after authorities found a unrefrigerated body and learned that at least one family had received a stillborn’s cremains mixed with portions of adult remains as well as metal fragments.
Lake County coroner Shannon Kent owns both the Bailey-Kent Funeral Home in Leadville — about 100 miles southeast of Denver — and the Kent Funeral Home Gypsum — about 133 miles west of the Mile High City, The Denver Post reported Friday .
Advertisement
Kent is already facing charges of perjury and official misconduct for sending wife Staci Kent, who is not authorized to act as a deputy coroner, to death scenes on at least three occasions, according to a September 2019 grand jury indictment.
Staci Kent arrived to one of those death scenes without a body bag, which spurred an argument with authorities, the indictment notes.
Advertisement
Bailey-Kent Funeral Home, pictured at left, is one of two funeral homes owned by Shannon Kent now under criminal investigation. (Google)
At the time of publication, no charges had been filed against the coroner, though Colorado has suspended the business licenses for both funeral homes.
The probe into the coroner’s funeral homes started back in February, after a client complained to the Lake County Sheriff’s Office about the handling of human remains.
The Daily News Flash Newsletter
Weekdays
Catch up on the day’s top five stories every weekday afternoon.
You are now following this newsletter. See all newsletters.
Kent has not yet been arrested for the most recent incidents, which at the Leadville funeral home included authorities' discovery of an “abandoned” stillborn, according to the Oct. 13 summary suspension issued by Colorado’s Office of Funeral Home and Crematory Registration.
Most Read
Gov. Cuomo, grinning, says boyfriend he claimed to ‘like’ is ‘no longer with us’
Police find body of missing rapper in car’s trunk, charge driver with murder
Boyfriend charged with murdering pregnant nurse practitioner, dumping body in Queens
Earlier this month, authorities from both Lake and Eagle counties “encountered a strong odor of decomposition” when they searched the Leadville funeral home, reads
There, authorities also found dried bodily fluid on surgical equipment, the metal preparation table, and the floor. A body bag was found to be leaking bodily fluids along with a container of animal remains which was also leaking fluids.
Authorities also uncovered multiple refrigerated bodies which were wrapped in sheets or blankets but did not have any tags or paperwork identifying them.
Kent operates six funeral homes in the state’s high country, which also include Buena Vista, Fairplay, Idaho Springs, and Silverthorne.
In mid-March, Kent received a “letter of admonition" from the Office of Funeral Home and Crematory Registration after unembalmed, unrefrigerated remains were found in the Gypsum funeral home over 24 hours after the person had died.
Recommended on Daily News
Advertisement
Advertisement
Most Read See more Most Read articles
Gov. Cuomo, grinning, says boyfriend he claimed to ‘like’ is ‘no longer with us’
Oct 23, 2020
Boyfriend charged with murdering pregnant nurse practitioner, dumping body in Queens
40m
Police find body of missing rapper in car’s trunk, charge driver with murder
Oct 26, 2020
Advertisement
Advertisement
