Skip to main content
What We Do
Where We Work
News & Stories
Research & Reports
About Us
Search
Donate
What We Do
Survival
Learning
Protection
Emergencies
Advocacy
Campaigns
Where We Work
News & Stories
Global News
Voices for Change
Child Writes
Research & Reports
About Us
Who We Are
100 Years for Children
Accountability
Our Commitment to Safeguarding
Our Leadership
Our Partners
Our Suppliers
Work For Us
Contact Us
Search
Donate
Our Global Board
Home
About Us
Our Leadership
Our Global Board
Our Global Board
The Save the Children International Board manages the business of the charity, ensures that all activities are within UK law and agreed charitable objects and is responsible for the oversight of, and agreeing the financial plan for, international programmes. They are drawn from a wide field of experience, including children's rights, healthcare, strategy, law and business. 
Robert Good
Interim Board Chair
Robert Good has more than 10 years’ experience in the sector of humanitarian aid and cooperation assisting non-profit organizations to become more professional in the management of their operations. He has worked closely with the Association of Charitable Funds (ACF) and other organizations on such matters as strategic planning, financial management, mergers, organizational design and people management. Robert has lived in Spain for 25 years and joined the Board of Save the Children Spain as VP Finance in December 2013, becoming Chair in 2016. Prior to entering the non-profit sector, Robert held senior management positions in multinationals in the private sector and has lived and worked in the UK, USA and Italy. Robert today divides his time between his own consultancy work, Save the Children and teaching. Robert joined the SCA/SCI Board in 2019 and is Chair of the Governance Committee.
Anne Fahy
Anne is Non-Executive Director and Chair of Audit Committee at Interserve, SThree and Nyrstar. Until 2015 Anne was CFO of BP’s Aviation Fuels business. During her 27 years at BP Anne gained extensive experience of global business, developing markets, risk management, internal control, compliance and strategy development in BP’s aviation, petrochemicals, trading and retail sectors. Anne is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Ireland, having working at KPMG in Ireland and Australia prior to joining BP. Anne is Finance Committee chair.
Debra Fine
Debra Fine is the founder and President of Fine Capital Partners a hedge fund founded in 2004 New York City. One of a handful of investment firms run by women, Fine Capital manages US equity assets principally for university endowments and foundations. Before starting Fine Capital, Debra was Director of Global Equities at Loews Corporation where she managed a global equity portfolio. Prior to Loews Corporation, Debra was a Principal and a buy-side equity analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. Debra also worked for the New York City Department of Sanitation as special assistant to the commissioner. She started her career at Salomon Brothers where she was a Vice President in Corporate Finance. Debra received a B.A. from Yale University and an M.B.A. from Harvard University. She is married with three children and lives in New York City. Debra has served on many non-profit boards and investment committees and is currently the Vice Chair of Save the Children US, and Chair of Footsteps which serves people who leave insular ultra-orthodox communities in New York. Debra joined the SCA/SCI Board in 2018.
Roy Caple Hernandez
Roy Caple Hernandez has over 30 years’ experience designing and managing public affairs and communications strategy for private, public and non-governmental organisations throughout the Americas.  He was CEO of several communications firms in Latin America, and his expertise has focused on advising leaders, CEOs, Executive Committees and management on strategy, reputation, organisational structures, public affairs and communications campaigns, as well as crisis management and corporate responsibility. In addition to Save the Children, Roy has also served on the board of NGOs that focus on HIV awareness and prevention, as well as strengthening education. Roy has been a Board Member for Save the Children in Mexico since 2008, its Vice Chair since 2015, overseeing Governance issues and participating in the Development, Planning, Programs, Governance and Talent committees. Roy joined the SCA/SCI Board in 2018, and he is the designated Child Safeguarding Trustee.
Peter Hodgson
Peter Hodgson is currently a director of several public companies and until late 2016 the Chief Executive Officer of The Myer Family Company a privately held investment and wealth management business with offices in four states. Until 2008, Peter was Group Managing Director Institutional at ANZ. Previously he was Chief Risk Officer for two years (2005-2007) before which time he had been Head of Structured Finance. Prior to returning to Australia in 1997 Peter had been working in advisory and structured finance, in the United Kingdom, Asia and the US, variously at Bank of America and BZW. Peter has been a director of Save the Children Australia since May 2012 and became Chairman in June 2012. Peter joined the SCA/SCI Board in 2015; he is a Vice Chair, chair of the Audit & Risk Committee and the designated Whistleblowing Trustee.
Tamara Ingram
Tamara is currently Global Chairman at Wunderman Thompson. Previously, Tamara was the Global Chief Executive Officer of J. Walter Thompson, heading up the agency’s global network of 12,000 employees, across 200 offices in 90 countries. Prior to J. Walter Thompson, Tamara was Chief Client Team Officer at WPP where she led 45 global account teams, representing one-third of the Group’s $20 billion in annual revenues. Tamara’s extensive advertising agency experience includes earlier roles as Grey UK’s Group Chief Executive Officer, Global Leader on their P&G account, and at WPP’s wholly owned data investment division, Kantar. Prior to joining the WPP family, Tamara was Chief Executive Officer of McCann Worldgroup in London and Chief Executive Officer of the Saatchi & Saatchi London office. Tamara’s career has been characterised by passion, commitment, and an ability to deliver results by harnessing talented teams both among clients and within the agency. Tamara is an active participant in several advertising industry organisations, serving on the boards of the Ad Council and as a member of the Marketing Group of Great Britain, Women in Advertising and Communications London, 4A's, and Advertising Women of New York. Tamara believes deeply in giving her time and resources to charity and is a Trustee of Save the Children International. In 2011, she was awarded an OBE for services to tourism through her work as Chairman of Visit London. Tamara joined the SCA/SCI Board in 2019.
Brad Irwin
Brad Irwin has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Welch Foods Inc., a global processor and marketer of juices and jams, since February 2009. Prior to this role, Brad was President, Cadbury Adams North America LLC, the North American confectionery business unit of Cadbury Schweppes plc, from June 2007 through November 2008. From April 2003 until June 2007, Brad was President of the U.S. confectionery business. He served as President of Mott’s Inc., a business unit of Cadbury Schweppes, from May 2000 until April 2003 and from 1980 to 1999, Brad served in various senior capacities for The Procter & Gamble Company. Brad has been a Director of Church & Dwight, a leading consumer packaged goods company, since 2006 and is a member of the Audit Committee of the Board. He has a B.A. in Economics and Political Science from Amherst College. Brad served as a trustee of Save the Children US from 2003 to 2009. He returned to Save the Children’s US Board in 2011 and joined the SCA/SCI Board in 2018.
Margaret McGetrick
Peg currently is a Director and former interim CEO for Grantham, Mayo, Van Otterloo & Co. She is also on the Board of Trustees for Save the Children US where she is the Chair of the Finance and Investment Committees. She was a founding partner of Liberty Square Asset Management (1998-2014) and before that a Partner of Grantham, Mayo, Van Otterloo & Co where she led the International Equity division (1985-1996). Peg began her investment career in non-US equities as an analyst for The Commonfund for International Investments. She has also served on the Investment Committee for Partners Healthcare System (2010-2019). She was previously on the Board and Investment committees of several educational institutions including Providence College, The Wheeler School, Friends Academy and Our Sister School. Peg graduated from Providence College with a BS in Psychology and Business Management, and holds a MS in Finance from Fairfield University. Peg resides in New York City and South Dartmouth, MA.
Elizabeth Lule
Elizabeth Lule is currently a senior global health and international development consultant with the World Bank Group, and formerly Director in Global Development at the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. Prior to this, she worked at the World Bank for many years in several senior management and technical positions including; Director/Manager of Regional Integration, Manager of the HIV-AIDS program in Africa and Global Senior Advisor for Population and Reproductive Health. She was also Adjunct Professor in International Health at Georgetown University for five years. Prior to joining the World Bank, she was Regional Vice President for Pathfinder International and worked with USAID in Nigeria. She serves on several Boards of Directors, and has been a member of global think tanks, UN Inter-Agency Task Teams and advisory groups. Author and co-author of several books and articles, her current interests include population and development, global health policy and financing, public health/pandemic preparedness, and reproductive, maternal, newborn, child and adolescent health. She is a passionate advocate for the rights of women, adolescents, and children, and a frequent speaker in international and academic fora. She has joint advanced degrees from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and the London School of Economics. Elizabeth joined the SCA/SCI Board in 2016 and she is Chair of the People and Organisation Committee.
Charles Steel
Charles Steel has twenty years of experience as an investor in medium and large sized companies. This includes, since 2013, leading the European private equity business of the global alternative investment firm, Ares Management. Charles also lived and worked in the Middle East from 2010 to 2012 when he served as an Adviser at the Office of the Quartet Representative, which focuses on economic and institutional development in the West Bank and Gaza. Charles serves as the Chairman of Farrow & Ball. He previously served on the Council of Governors of the Chelsea & Westminster Hospital NHS Foundation Trust and on the Board of Governors of Park Walk Primary School.  Charles has a BA in history from the University of Cambridge. Charles is the Interim Chair of Save the Children UK and joined the SCA/SCI Board in 2019.
Joon Oh
Joon Oh has been Chair of the Save the Children Korea Board since July 2018. Other than Save the Children Korea, he is a professor of United Nations studies at Kyung Hee University in Seoul, and is also working with several civil society organizations on the rights of persons with disabilities both in Korea and internationally, including the International Disability Alliance (IDA) and Rehabilitation International (RI). In February 2018, he served as an Honorary Ambassador for the 2018 Paralympic Winter Games held in March in Pyeongchang , Korea. He was Ambassador and Permanent Representative of the Republic of Korea to the United Nations in New York from 2013 to 2016. He also served as the 71st president of the UN Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) in 2015-2016 His other international activities include those as a member of the High Level Panel on the Future of Development Assistance Committee of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) from 2016-17; President of the UN Security Council (May 2014); member of the Korea Agenda Council of the World Economic Forum (WEF) from 2010-13; Chair of the United Nations Disarmament Commission (UNDC) in 2006; and Chair of the Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR) from 2004-05. Born in Seoul on 4 October 1955, he is married with two children. Joon joined the SCA/SCI Board in 2019.
Raymond Mankowitz
Raymond Mankowitz served as an executive of McDonald’s in Sweden and Nordics for over 25 years, with extensive experience in corporate communications, public affairs, marketing, consumer business insights, supply chain, product development, human resources and leadership development. Sweden Media recognized Raymond among the top 20 best communicators and top 5 out of 100 best influencers of corporate sustainability. He holds an inclusion & diversity award from “Chef” - the leading Swedish Management Magazine for persistent advocating for increased societal integration of corporations. Raymond has been a member a range of executive and not-for-profit Boards including: McDonald’s Europe Corporate Communications Board; Stockholm City, Social Services Advisory Board of Integration; Advisory Board of Bergh’s School of Communication; The Confederation of Sweden Enterprise, Hotel & restaurant sector, VISITA; Council advising the Swedish Minister for Integration Boosting Diversity and youth employment; Sweden’s Ronald McDonald House Charities; and the Swedish National Judo Team Committee, preparing for the 2016 Olympics in Rio.  Currently, Raymond is a consultant to CEOs and executives on strategy, corporate affairs & responsibility, reputation, issue & crisis management, change management & organizational structures. Raymond is on the Board of Save the Children Sweden and joined the SCA/SCI Board in 2019.
Dona Young
Dona D. Young is a director of Foot Locker, Inc., chairing the nominating and governance committee, Aegon, N.V., and Save the Children. She previously served on the board of a global manufacturing company and a large banking institution, as well as several not-for-profit organizations. In 2016 Dona was elected Lead Director at Foot Locker. After a 30-year career, she retired as chair, president, and CEO of an insurance and asset management company shortly after the spin-off of its asset management business at the end of 2008. Dona was one of only twenty-four women CEOs of Fortune 1000 companies when she retired. In addition to her board work, Dona serves as a strategic advisor to CEOs and boards, regularly speaks on board governance topics and serves as a member for the Board Advisory Services Group of the National Association of Corporate Directors. She was a member of the 2012 Advanced Leadership Fellowship at Harvard University and has earned the NACD Leadership Fellows designation. Dona has been named to the 2015 NACD Directorship 100 which recognizes those individuals who have advanced exemplary board leadership. Dona is on the Board of Save the Children US and she joined the SCA/SCI Board in 2016.
Claudio Tesauro
Claudio Tesauro graduated from the University of Naples in 1987 and obtained a master’s degree in Comparative Law (LLMCJ) at the New York University School of Law. He is a partner of Bonelli Erede Pappalardo and the Head of the Antitrust Department. He focuses on EU and Competition law and is active in both administrative and court proceedings. Claudio also has significant experience in consumer protection and unfair and misleading advertising law. In 2008, he published one of the first papers on the newly introduced Italian discipline on unfair commercial practices and advertising.  He received the Top Legal Best Antitrust Lawyer Award in 2011 and won the ILO Award in 2009 and 2011. Claudio is the President of Italian Antitrust Association and a member of the Board of Director of TNT Post Italia. Claudio is Chair of Save the Children Italy. He was elected to the SCA/SCI Board in 2010-2013 and rejoined the Board in 2019
Together we are stronger. Join the conversation.
Twitter
LinkedIn
YouTube
Our Member Websites
Australia
Canada
Denmark
Dominican Republic
Fiji
Finland
Germany
Honduras
Hong Kong SAR
Iceland
India
Indonesia
Italy
Japan
Jordan
Korea
Lithuania
Mexico
Netherlands
New Zealand
Norway
Philippines
Romania
South Africa
Spain
Swaziland
Sweden
Switzerland
United Kingdom
United States
What We Do
Survival
Learning
Protection
Emergencies
Advocacy
Campaigns
About us
Who We Are
Contact Us
Accountability
Safeguarding
Our Leadership
Work For Us
100 Years For Children
Modern Slavery Statement
Save the Children International is a company limited by guarantee,              registered in England and Wales with company number 3732267 and a              charity registered in England and Wales with charity number 1076822.              Its registered office is St Vincent House, 30 Orange Street,              London, WC2H 7HH © 2020 Save the Children International             | Legal | Privacy | Recruitment Privacy Policy
