Menu
Home
Our Organization
About quasar
Our Mission
Leadership Team
quasar Certifications
In the News
Anaerobic Digestion
Design-Build Services
Process Description
Farm Digester
Wastewater/Municipal
Contact a Developer
Organic Waste Management
Types of Organic Waste
Food Waste – G2E
Depackaging Services
Laboratory Services
Contact a Representative
Contact Us
Locations
Careers
Conferences
Odor Hotline
Quick Links
Biomass
Digesters
Careers
NEWS
April 13 - Is your Digester Not Performing Up to your Expectations?
Read full story
April 01 - Adding Profitable Biomass to Under-Utilized Digesters
Read full story Read all news
CONFERENCES
August 10-13: Waste EXPO
New Orleans, LA - Ernest N. Morial Convention Center
August 26 - 28: IWEA Annual Conference
Fort Wayne, IN - Grand Wayne Center
Read full story
Northwest Bank - A True Lending Partner
Leadership Team: Biogas Experience
Our Experienced Leaders are Building the North American Biogas Industry
Combined, quasar’s Leadership Team has more than sixty years of experience developing successful projects in the biogas space.  Their expertise in developing, designing, engineering, financing, constructing and operating anaerobic digestion systems has set quasar apart as the industry leading technology.
Mel Kurtz, President
Mel Kurtz, President
Kurtz has founded, directed, and operated businesses from start up to millions in annual sales through effective business planning, creative sales techniques, and innovative marketing. He has been recognized by industry leaders for his experience in the biogas industry and role as a visionary for the growing US anaerobic digestion market. Kurtz has been with quasar since its’ founding in 2006.
Steve Smith, Chief Financial Officer
Steve Smith, CFO
Smith has more than 30 years of financial and operational experience in capacities ranging from Vice President to Chief Financial Officer.  Smith was formerly Vice-President of Finance for Next Media Operating, Co., a $750 million holding company specializing in the aggregation of out-of-home media.  Smith is responsible for operational financing, establishment of financing options for clients, the negotiations of primary and ancillary sales, and securing other financial options with regard to investors and grant development programs and incentives.
Alan Johnson, Vice President, Project Management & Development
Alan Johnson, VP Project Management and Development
Johnson joined quasar in 2009 and has been instrumental in the development, management and engineering of 18 digester projects throughout his tenure. He has more than 40 years of experience in manufacturing and business start-ups. Johnson has held positions in industrial engineering, human resources, quality, marketing, sales and general management, primarily in the automotive industry in supply industries that include rubber, plastics, fiberglass, and steel.  He is a registered engineer in 13 states and holds an MBA from Lake Erie College and a Bachelor in Industrial Engineering from the Fenn College of Engineering of Cleveland State University.
Mark Suchan, Director Materials Management
Mark Suchan, Director Materials Management
Mark has been with quasar for more than 12 years. Mark is responsibilities the planning, coordination and execution of all supply chain matters. In his time with quasar, Mark has served as manager for departments including Operations, Biomass, Effluent, Logistics, and the Laboratory. He has also worked in quasar’s Project Development department. Mark has degrees from Ohio Northern University in Management and Accounting and is a member of OWEA Young Professionals.
Xumeng Ge, Ph.D., Laboratory Director
Xumeng Ge, Ph.D, Laboratory Director
Dr. Ge joined quasar as Laboratory Director in October 2016. He manages the daily operations of quasar’s state-of-the-art laboratory, and coordinates research and development to improve the performance of digesters and addresses technical issues related to anaerobic digestion. He has made significant contributions to digester operation, biomass acceptance, regulatory affairs, and technology commercialization. Dr. Ge has a Ph.D. in Biochemical Engineering and a Bachelor in Applied Chemistry.
Contact Us
Corporate Headquarters
quasar energy group
8600 East Pleasant Valley Road
Independence, Ohio 44131
(216) 986-9999 info@quasareg.com More Contact Information
Sales
Waste Management
Hotline (216) 986-9999 x 112
biomass@quasareg.com Contact an Account Executive
Project Development
(216) 986 - 9999 x 117 development@quasareg.com Contact a Project Developer
Tweets by @quasar_eg
Home
Our Company
Anaerobic Digestion
Organic Waste Management
Contact Us
Sustainable technology solutions . . .
