Submit Search
Search
FBI
More
Most Wanted
News
What We Investigate
Services
Resources
Submit a Tip
About
Contact Us
Home
About
Facebook Icon
Email Icon
Twitter Icon
Youtube Icon
Flickr Icon
LinkedIn Icon
Instagram Icon
Search FBI
Submit Search
FBIFederal Bureau of Investigation
Leadership & Structure
About
Mission & Priorities
Leadership & Structure
Partnerships
Community Outreach
Frequently Asked Questions
Leadership & Structure
FBI Executives  
﻿Director Christopher Wray
August 2, 2017 - Present
Christopher Wray became the eighth Director of the FBI on August 2, 2017.
Mr. Wray began his law enforcement career in 1997, serving in the Department of Justice as an assistant U.S. attorney for the Northern District of Georgia. In that role, Mr. Wray prosecuted a wide variety of federal criminal cases, including public corruption, gun trafficking, drug offenses, and financial fraud. In 2001, Mr. Wray was named associate deputy attorney general, and then principal associate deputy attorney general, in the Office of the Deputy Attorney General in Washington, D.C. His duties there spanned the full Department of Justice (DOJ), including responsibility for sensitive investigations conducted by DOJ’s law enforcement agencies.
Mr. Wray was nominated by President George W. Bush in 2003 to be the assistant attorney general for DOJ’s Criminal Division, supervising major national and international criminal investigations and prosecutions. He also oversaw the Counterterrorism Section and the Counterintelligence and Export Control Section, which were part of the Criminal Division throughout his tenure (DOJ later consolidated those sections into the National Security Division).
Mr. Wray was a member of the President’s Corporate Fraud Task Force, supervised the Enron Task Force, and served as a leader in DOJ’s post-9/11 efforts to combat terrorism, espionage, and cybercrime with domestic and foreign government partners. At the conclusion of his tenure, Mr. Wray was awarded the Edmund J. Randolph Award, DOJ’s highest award for leadership and public service.
Mr. Wray was born in New York City. He graduated with a bachelor’s degree from Yale University in 1989 and earned his law degree from Yale Law School in 1992. He clerked for Judge J. Michael Luttig of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. In 1993, Mr. Wray joined the international law firm of King & Spalding LLP, where he spent a total of almost 17 years practicing law in the area of government investigations and white-collar crime. At the time of his nomination to be FBI Director, Mr. Wray was chair of the firm’s Special Matters and Government Investigations Practice Group.
Senior Staff
Deputy Director – David Bowdich
Associate Deputy Director – Paul Abbate
Chief of Staff – Paul B. Murphy
Office of the Director/Deputy Director/Associate Deputy Director
Finance and Facilities Division – David Schlendorf
Information Management Division – Arlene Gaylord
Insider Threat Office – M.A. "Mo" Myers
Inspection Division – Douglas A. Leff
Office of the Chief Information Officer – Jonathan Moffa (Acting)
Office of Congressional Affairs – Jill C. Tyson
Office of EEO Affairs – A. Tonya Odom
Office of the General Counsel – Jason A. Jones
Office of Integrity and Compliance – Catherine Bruno
Office of the Ombudsman – Monique A. Bookstein
Office of Professional Responsibility – Stuart Platt
Office of Public Affairs – Brian P. Hale
Resource Planning Office – Caroline Otto
Executive Assistant Directors and Assistant Directors
National Security Branch  
Executive Assistant Director – John Brown
Counterintelligence Division – Alan E. Kohler, Jr.
Counterterrorism Division – Jill Sanborn
High-Value Detainee Interrogation Group – Paul W. Brown 
Terrorist Screening Center – Charles H. Kable, IV
Weapons of Mass Destruction Directorate – Donald Alway
Criminal, Cyber, Response, and Services Branch  
Executive Assistant Director – Terry Wade
Criminal Investigative Division – Calvin Shivers
Critical Incident Response Group – John P. Selleck
Cyber Division – Matt Gorham
International Operations Division – Charles Spencer
Victim Services Division – Regina Thompson
﻿Intelligence Branch  
Executive Assistant Director – Stephen Laycock
Directorate of Intelligence – Ryan T. Young
Office of Partner Engagement – George P. Beach, II
Office of Private Sector – Michael Sullivan
﻿Science and Technology Branch  
Executive Assistant Director – Darrin E. Jones
Criminal Justice Information Services Division – Michael D. DeLeon
Laboratory Division – G. Clayton Grigg
Operational Technology Division – Brian C. Turner
Information and Technology Branch  
Executive Assistant Director – Michael Gavin (Acting)
IT Applications and Data Division – Nathan Taylor (Acting)
IT Infrastructure Division – Dean Phillips
Human Resources Branch  
Executive Assistant Director – Jeffrey S. Sallet
Human Resources Division – Hayden Temin
Security Division – Larissa L. Knapp
Training Division – Renae McDermott
Section Links
Most Wanted
Ten Most Wanted
Fugitives
Terrorism
Kidnappings/Missing Persons
Seeking Information
Bank Robbers
ECAP
ViCAP
News
Stories
Videos
Press Releases
Speeches
Testimony
Podcasts and Radio
Photos
Español
Apps
What We Investigate
Terrorism
Counterintelligence
Cyber Crime
Public Corruption
Civil Rights
Organized Crime
White-Collar Crime
Violent Crime
WMD
Services
CJIS
CIRG
Laboratory Services
Training Academy
Operational Technology
Information Management
About
Mission & Priorities
Leadership & Structure
Partnerships
Community Outreach
FAQs
Resources
Law Enforcement
Businesses
Victim Assistance
Reports and Publications
Contact Us
Field Offices
FBI Headquarters
Overseas Offices
FBI Jobs
More
Submit a Tip
Crime Statistics
History
FOIPA
Scams & Safety
FBI Kids
FBI Tour
Accessibility
eRulemaking
Freedom of Information/Privacy Act
Legal Notices
Legal Policies and Disclaimers
Links
Privacy Policy
USA.gov
White House
No FEAR Act
FBI.gov is an official site of the U.S. government, U.S. Department of Justice
Search FBI
Submit Search
Home
Most Wanted
News
What We Investigate
Services
Resources
Submit a Tip
About
Contact Us
Crime Statistics
Photos
Video
Outreach
History
FOIA
Scams & Safety
FBI Kids
FBI Jobs
