Skip to content
Sections
xml:space="preserve">
Search
xml:space="preserve">
New York
Sports
News
Snyde
Opinion
Man shoots girlfriend dead on Manhattan street, then commits suicide
Man shoots girlfriend dead on Manhattan street, then commits suicide in front of shocked onlookers
Trump accuses Biden of waving ‘white flag’ over COVID by shunning campaign rallies
Gov. Cuomo, grinning, says boyfriend he claimed to ‘like’ is ‘no longer with us’
NYC families unable to have kids log into online classes fear being reported to child services for truancy
Our new battle plan on the COVID war front: Gov. Cuomo lays out New York’s strategy to defeat the virus
Paramedic wearing ‘Just Deaf, Not Rude’ mask felt ‘very hurt’ by ignorant flight attendant
MTA’s new OMNY system lets rider get refunded for crummy NYC subway service
Darryl Strawberry opens up about moving past baseball, Steve Cohen buying the Mets, his new life as a pastor ... and Donald Trump
Cops identify woman found dead dumped behind bush in Queens as L.I. nurse practitioner
Kevin Durant and Kyrie Irving are designing a sneaker together
Plenty of spook-tacular — and safe — haunted Halloween attractions across New York, New Jersey
We must prevent a great cultural depression
Florida police chief killed in plane crash: ‘He was the heart of the department’
Boy, 15, charged with murder for shooting death in Manhattan’s East Village
Is fairness in the NYPD’s DNA?
SEE IT: Sharks swim below unwitting humans near Australian coast in shocking video
20 years after the dynasty fell, Yankees have an offseason full of decisions
Pro, anti-Trump protesters clash in Times Square; demonstrators curse out Rudy Guiliani as he passes
Man charged with egging cops during clash between pro- and anti-Trump protesters in Times Square
South Korea continues flu vaccine after 48 deaths are deemed unconnected to the shot
Advertisement
Advertisement
Crime
News
Florida man charged for throwing a pumpkin and its insides at his girlfriend, who was ‘covered in pumpkin seeds and pulp’
By Jami Ganz
New York Daily News |
Oct 23, 2020 at 10:28 AM
Gourdness gracious.
A Florida man has been charged with domestic battery for throwing a pumpkin and its insides at his girlfriend.
Advertisement
Nathan Garisto, 26, was arrested Monday for the incident that took place early that morning at 2 a.m. in the home shared with his girlfriend, 29, in Largo, about 23 miles west of Tampa, according to a criminal complaint obtained by The Smoking Gun .
(Chris Jackson/Getty Images)
Authorities said that upon arriving at the couple’s home, they found the victim, whose name was not released, “covered in pumpkin seeds and pulp" and Garisto “heavily intoxicated while engaged in a verbal argument with his girlfriend.”
Advertisement
He allegedly “threw a pumpkin and all insides of the pumpkin at the subject,” according to the complaint.
Garisto told police that he’d actually thrown the gourd “at the sliding doors," not his girlfriend.
He pleaded not guilty to the misdemeanor count and was free on a $1,000 bond. Garisto was ordered to not have contact with his girlfriend and to wear an alcohol monitor.
Recommended on Daily News
Advertisement
Advertisement
Most Read See more Most Read articles
Man shoots girlfriend dead on Manhattan street, then commits suicide in front of shocked onlookers
35m
Trump accuses Biden of waving ‘white flag’ over COVID by shunning campaign rallies
1h
NYC families unable to have kids log into online classes fear being reported to child services for truancy
Oct 25, 2020
Advertisement
Advertisement
