Skip to content. | Skip to navigation
Search
Sections
Contact the FBI
FBI Headquarters
Local FBI Offices
Overseas Offices
Report Threats & Crime
More Contacts...
About the FBI
Quick Facts
What We Investigate
Frequently Asked Questions
History
Partnerships and Outreach
Reports and Publications
Criminal Justice Information Services
Information Technology
Intelligence
Laboratory Services
National Security Branch
Training Academy
More About Us...
Most Wanted
Ten Most Wanted Fugitives
Most Wanted Terrorists
Seeking Terrorism Info
Kidnappings & Missing Persons
Bank Robbers
Parental Kidnappings
Cyber’s Most Wanted
White-Collar Crimes
More Wanted by the FBI...
FBI News
News Blog
Photo Gallery
Podcasts & Radio
Press Releases
RSS News Feeds
Speeches
Stories
Testimony
Video
Widgets
FBI Stats and Services
Identity History Summary Checks
Crime Statistics/UCR
Criminal Justice Information Services
Fingerprints & Other Biometrics
FOIA/Records Requests
Gun Checks/NICS
Laboratory Services
Law Enforcement Services
Name Checks
Reports & Publications
Training
Victim Assistance
More Resources...
Scams and Safety
Be Crime Smart Advice
Common Fraud Schemes
E-scams & Warnings
Sex Offender Registry
Report Threats & Crime
Get a Job!
FBI Fun and Games!
Get FBI Updates
Home • Los Angeles • Press Releases • 2010 • Woman Who Staged Fake Funerals as Part of Life Insurance Scam Found Guilty of Federal Fraud Charges
Info
This is archived material from the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) website. It may contain outdated information and links may no longer function.
Twitter
Facebook
Share
 
Woman Who Staged Fake Funerals as Part of Life Insurance Scam Found Guilty of Federal Fraud Charges
U.S. Attorney’s Office August 02, 2010
Central District of California (213) 894-2434
LOS ANGELES—A federal jury has convicted the last defendant indicted in relation to an insurance fraud ring that staged funerals and sought payouts against life insurance policies held by “deceased” individuals.
Jean Crump, 67, of South Los Angeles, was found guilty late Friday of two counts of wire fraud and one count of mail fraud, charges that cumulatively carry a statutory maximum sentence of 90 years in prison.
Crump, who worked at the now-defunct Simpson and McGee Mortuary in Lynwood, participated in a scheme to defraud insurance companies by filing fraudulent claims against $1.2 million in life insurance policies for an individual who had not died as claimed. As part of the scheme, Crump and her accomplices caused bogus death certificates to be prepared, purchased a burial plot, buried an empty casket, and staged a phony funeral to lend credibility to the scheme. After two insurance companies began investigating the claims, Crump and her accomplices exhumed the casket, filled it with a mannequin and cow parts, and had the casket cremated. Crump and her accomplices filed false documents with the County of Los Angeles stating that the remains were cremated and scattered at sea, even though no corpse existed. Crump offered a medical doctor $50,000 to create medical records supporting the fake death certificate.
Crump and her accomplices also defrauded several companies that advance cash to cover funeral expenses in exchange for a portion of the decedent’s life insurance policies. They prepared four fake invoices claiming that the phony funeral was held at three different mortuaries, and two companies advanced costs to cover the phony funeral.
The jury in the case was unable to reach a verdict on two mail fraud charges related to a $50,000 life insurance policy for a woman who had died in 2004.
Crump is scheduled to be sentenced by United States District Judge Dean D. Pregerson on November 29.
Faye Shilling, 61, of Hawthorne, who was scheduled to go to trial with Crump, pleaded guilty to two counts of wire fraud shortly before the trial. Shilling also is scheduled to be sentenced by Judge Pregerson on November 29.
Barbara Ann Lynn, 64, of Los Angeles, previously pleaded guilty in relation to the scheme and was sentenced to serve one year of home detention as part of a three-year period of probation. The fourth defendant in the case, Lydia Eileen Pearce, 35, of Signal Hill, pleaded guilty and will be sentenced on November 8.
This case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
This content has been reproduced from its original source .
Twitter
Facebook
Share
 
10.14.10
Los Angeles Division Links
Los Angeles Home
Contact Us
- Overview
- Territory/Jurisdiction
News and Outreach 
- Press Room | Stories
- In Your Community
About Us
- Our People & Capabilities
- What We Investigate
- Our Partnerships
- Los Angeles History
Wanted by the FBI - Los Angeles
FBI Jobs
 
Contact Us | About Us | Most Wanted | News | Stats & Services | Scams & Safety | Jobs | Fun & Games | Mobile | Español
Resources for: Law Enforcement | Intel Partners | Researchers/Students | Communities | Parents | Victims | Businesses
Follow Us On: Facebook | You Tube | Twitter | iTunes | All Sites
Accessibility | eRulemaking | Freedom of Information Act | Legal Notices | Legal Policies and Disclaimers | Links | Privacy Policy | USA.gov | White House
FBI.gov is an official site of the U.S. government, U.S. Department of Justice
