Explore
Billionaires
All Billionaires
World's Billionaires
Forbes 400
America's Richest Self-Made Women
China's Richest
India's Richest
Indonesia's Richest
Korea's Richest
Thailand's Richest
Japan's Richest
Australia's Richest
Taiwan's Richest
Singapore's Richest
Philippines' Richest
Hong Kong's Richest
Malaysia's Richest
Money & Politics
2020 Money
Innovation
All Innovation
5G
AI
Amazon Web Services BrandVoice | Paid Program
AWS Infrastructure Solutions BrandVoice | Paid Program
Big Data
Cloud
Cloud 100
Consumer Tech
Cybersecurity
Enterprise Tech
Games
Green Tech
Healthcare
Japan BrandVoice | Paid Program
Jumio BrandVoice | Paid Program
SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program
Science
ServiceNow BrandVoice | Paid Program
Social Media
Tableau BrandVoice | Paid Program
T-Mobile For Business BrandVoice | Paid Program
Venture Capital
Leadership
All Leadership
Careers
CEO Network
CFO Network
CIO Network
CMO Network
Crowe BrandVoice | Paid Program
Deloitte BrandVoice | Paid Program
Diversity & Inclusion
Education
Forbes The Culture
ForbesWomen
Google Cloud BrandVoice | Paid Program
Leadership Strategy
Under 30
Working Remote
Money
All Money
Banking & Insurance
Crypto & Blockchain
ETFs & Mutual Funds
Fintech
Hedge Funds & Private Equity
Investing
Markets
New York Life Investments BrandVoice | Paid Program
Personal Finance
Premium Investing Newsletters
Retirement
Taxes
Tax-Smart Investing
Top Advisor | SHOOK
Wealth Management
Election 2020
Business
All Business
Aerospace & Defense
Business Reporter BrandVoice | Paid Program
Energy
Food & Drink
Hollywood & Entertainment
Honeywell BrandVoice | Paid Program
Manufacturing
Media
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries BrandVoice | Paid Program
Policy
Real Estate
Retail
SportsMoney
Transportation
Small Business
All Small Business
Business As (Un)usual
Entrepreneurs
Franchises
Small Business Strategy
Square BrandVoice | Paid Program
Lifestyle
All Lifestyle
Arts
Boats & Planes
Cars & Bikes
Dining
ForbesLife
Forbes Travel Guide
Spirits
Style & Beauty
Travel
Vices
Watches
Shopping
All Shopping
Forbes Coupons
Advisor
All Advisor
The Best Credit Cards Of 2020
Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards
Best Cash Back Credit Cards
Best 0% APR Credit Cards
Best Travel Credit Cards
Best Rewards Credit Cards
Best Business Credit Cards
Browse All Credit Cards
Best Travel Insurance Companies
Best Life Insurance Companies
Best Car Insurance Companies
Whole Life Insurance
Best Personal Loans
Best Student Loans
Best Student Loan Refinance
Student Loan Refinance Calculator
Auto Loan Calculator
Best Savings Accounts
Best Money Market Accounts
Best Checking Accounts
Best CD Rates
Best Online Banks
Best ID Theft Protection Companies
Second Stimulus Check Calculator
Wheels
All Wheels
Lists
All Lists
Video
All Video
Newsletters
Daily Dozen Briefing
Crypto Confidential
Editorial Newsletters
Investing Digest
Premium Investing Newsletters
Forbes Magazine
All Forbes Magazine
Forbes Asia
Free Issue of Forbes
Latest
Coronavirus Coverage
Daily Cover Stories
Dark Capital
Editors' Picks
Election 2020
Visual Web Stories
Featured
30 Under 30 2020
30 Under 30: A Decade Of Disruption
All Hands On Data - A Tableau Series | Paid Program
Antidote For Uncertainty
BCG With Forbes Insights
DNA Of Success
DocuSign With Forbes Insights | Paid Program
EY & Citi On The Importance Of Resilience And Innovation | Paid Program
Impact 50: Investors Seeking Profit — And Pushing For Change
Forbes AgTech+ Under 30 Hackathon
Forbes Analytics Plus With Teradata | Paid Program
Nuveen With Forbes Insights | Paid Program
Office Depot OfficeMax BrandVoice | Paid Program
Paste by WeTransfer BrandVoice | Paid Program
ServiceNow Brandvoice | Paid Program
St. Jude BrandVoice | Paid Program
Square BrandVoice | Paid Program
The World's Most Influential CMOs
Voices Of Success
Advertise with Forbes
All Advertise with Forbes
Report a Security Issue
Site Feedback
Tips
Corrections
Privacy
Terms
AdChoices
Reprints & Permissions
© 2020 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved
Create Account
|
Sign In
BETA
This is a BETA experience. You may opt-out by clicking here
Edit Story
|
Sep 22, 2020,
08:49am EDT
From Troubled Teen To Top Business Expert, How This Entrepreneur Learned To ‘Boss It’
Alison Coleman Senior Contributor
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.
Entrepreneurs
Share to Facebook
Share to Twitter
Share to Linkedin
Carl Reader
Sarah Reader
It takes drive and determination to succeed in business, as well as a clear sense of direction. As a teenager, Carl Reader felt his life was directionless. Having left school at 16 with no qualifications he found himself working as a supermarket shelf-stacker, with no clear plans for his future.
He applied for a few random jobs, and by chance, drifted into accountancy, with no idea about what the role involved. But it was the launchpad for a hugely successful business career, in which he became chairman of the accountancy practice, d&t, he’d joined as a young employee, and scaled it into one of the U.K.’s leading firms specializing in franchising, with a multi-million-pound annual revenue.
Reader has also served as a board director of the British Franchise Association, Chair of the Practitioners Panel at ACCA, and an ambassador for IPSE (Association of Independent Professionals and the Self-Employed). A serial entrepreneur, small business expert and international speaker, he is also the author of The Startup Coach, The Franchising Handbook, and his latest book Boss It. Here he shares his story.
Alison Coleman: How did your move into accountancy kickstart your own business career?
Carl Reader: I had no idea of what I was letting myself in for. I didn't enjoy the 'number crunching' side of the job, but I did enjoy going out to meet business owners and helping them, for example, with things like computerizing their systems. I quickly became fascinated by their businesses and was constantly asking them questions, until eventually, I knew more about business than many of the business owners I was working with. At the age of 26, I was offered the chance to buy into d&t as part of a management buyout.
Recommended For You
In The Energy Sector, Industry Titans And Startups Don’t Have To Be Competitors
6 Tools To Bring Your Virtual Conferences To Life
How The New Normal Is Shifting Corporate Innovation
Coleman: What led you in the small business advisory space?
Reader: In 2015 I wrote my first business book and started to build a public platform. I’d also become a regular speaker at events and had pretty much stepped away from the operational functions of my businesses. Nobody was offering genuine help and support to business owners without a hidden sale, whether that was a $27 e-book or a $2,997 summit. I was fortunate enough to have the freedom of time, and it was a great way for me to give back.
Coleman: What inspired you to write your new book?
Reader: I spotted a gap for books that both motivate the reader and help them implement; they tended towards either cheerleading or checklists, neither of which is very helpful without the other. Boss It is a business book for those who don't read business books. I’ve shared my models for success based on what has worked for me and the thousands of businesses I've worked with. It's the culmination of my experience so far, with nothing held back or kept in reserve for an expensive course or a future book.
Coleman: What have been your own biggest successes and challenges?
Reader: I always get a buzz from creating something new, while winning awards and being recognized internationally is a great pat on the back. However, the best moments come when some magic happens, for example, when one of our franchise networks transforms their processes, or a team member develops the skills to do things they couldn’t have previously imagined.
I've experienced failed investments and failed startups, but probably the hardest thing I’ve had to deal with was a shareholder exit. When you work with a business partner for years, you build a friendship alongside a business relationship, and I found the change from working co-operatively to corresponding via lawyers very tough.
Coleman: How has starting up today changed compared with a few years ago?
Reader: The biggest change I've seen is that starting a business is now seen as 'glamorous,' with many people now looking to start a business for the sake of starting a business, rather than because they have a fantastic product or service that will change the world.
Another change is the get rich quick phenomenon. Scroll through Facebook or LinkedIn and you are bombarded with promises of six-figure incomes in exchange for a subscription or a course. The reality is that business is hard work; it's not complicated, but it takes effort and sacrifice to be truly successful. Of course, there are some great examples of innovative businesses with impeccable brand equity. Gymshark, for example, is a British success story, based on a traditional business model, with traditional principles and work ethos, supplemented by a modern approach to reaching their customers.
Coleman: Despite the pandemic, huge numbers of people are now planning to start businesses. Why is this, and what advice do you have for them?
Reader: For some people it may be their only option. Redundancies will soar, and starting a side hustle is a way of diversifying your household income. But, there is another motivational factor to starting a business. We've been through an unprecedented global crisis, and the question ‘what's the worst that can happen?’ is more likely to be answered with a wry smile rather than a depressing list of fears. The pandemic has made us all realize that we only have one chance at life, and starting a business is one of the things that can be moved from bucket list to reality.
In terms of advice, one of the key concepts that I explore in my book is the Dream, Plan, Do, Review model. All businesses fail because they are lacking in one of these areas, so new business owners must pay the right level of attention to each, and within each step, focus their mindset appropriately as well as ticking all the 'to do' boxes.
Coleman: Are you optimistic for new entrepreneurs, and what will startup life look like as we eventually emerge from the current situation Covid-19?
Reader: I am optimistic. In the past, people were encouraged to aim for a safe job or a job for life. Today we are accepting that there is a different way of working. If society continues to support business, whether at a regional level by shopping locally, or nationally, through policy decisions, I believe that entrepreneurship will help us through Covid-19, the challenges of Brexit, and geopolitical uncertainty, helping to create new jobs to replace those lost. I hope my book and what I do plays a part in reminding people that there is nothing wrong with starting a business and being your own boss; it's a perfectly valid life choice.
Follow me on  Twitter  or  LinkedIn . Check out my  website . 
Alison Coleman
I'm a freelance journalist, founder of Coleman Media. For the last 20 years I’ve covered business stories for national and international online and print publications,
…
 Read More
I'm a freelance journalist, founder of Coleman Media. For the last 20 years I’ve covered business stories for national and international online and print publications, with a special interest in entrepreneurs and their startups. Away from business, I'm an accomplished ghostwriter: ‘Pure Dynamite - The Autobiography of the Dynamite Kid’, was a satisfying journalistic diversion. Follow me on Twitter @alisonbcoleman or see my latest work at www.alisoncoleman.co.uk
 Read Less
Print
Reprints & Permissions
