Skip to content
The BMON Story
Contact Us
Our Daily Email
Article Index
Search for:
Toggle Navigation
Toggle Navigation
The BMON Story
Contact Us
Our Daily Email
Article Index
Search for:
Contact Us
Telephone: 01438 352 152
Laura
If you’d like to discuss what BMON might be able to do to help your company, call Laura Mart, our Head of Client Services, on 01438 352152 or email laura@bmon.co.uk . Our mailing address is 3 Mill Lane, Weston, Hitchin, Herts. SG4 7AJ. You can also send for our Guide to Advertising with Google for Industrial and Scientific Companies and if you’re not already one of the 3,000 marketing managers who reads Chris Rand’s “Online Marketing – An Article a Day” emails, get on the circulation here !
Email laura@bmon.co.uk
 
Jackie
Jackie West, Head of Client Communications, manages our client support services such as website uptime and Google position monitoring, as well as our clients’ Google Ads campaigns.
Email Jackie
 
Paul
Paul Bragg, Managing Director, is BMON’s strategist, drawing on his extensive experience in scientific and technical marketing to help clients on a one-to-one basis.
Email Paul
 
Shaheen
Shaheen Ravat is a hugely experienced PPC professional who keeps a watching eye over all of our clients’ campaigns and sorts out any unique issues as they arise.
Email Shaheen
Judith
Judith Lewis is a world-renowned SEO expert, permanently available to advise on new developments and improving our clients’ search marketing campaigns.
Email Judith
 
Chris
Chris Rand is our Editorial Director, writing the daily ‘Online Marketing: An Article A Day’ blog and advising our clients on content-related issues.
Email Chris
 
Elaine
Elaine Bragg is our Financial Controller, managing our invoicing and accounting services.
Email Elaine
 
Mike
Mike Willis provides top-level financial and business decision-making support to the team.
Email Mike
Recent Articles by Chris
Being clever with search ads on your company name
Avoiding the overenthusiastic response email
Enquiry response: it really matters
More ideas for keywords are close at hand
Keeping email recipients engaged with images
About BMON
Full blog index
Legal information
Over 2000 industrial marketing people in the UK start their day with our free daily emailed article. Join them here.
