COVID-19: Fall 2020 plans and student resources ›
Skip to content
Toggle navigation
Admissions Menu
Undergraduate
First Year
Transfer Students
International Students
Adult Undergraduate
Minneapolis
Rochester
Graduate Programs
Master of Fine Arts in Creative Writing
Graduate degrees in Education
Master of Arts in Leadership
MBA
Master of Music Therapy
Graduate degrees in Nursing
Master of Science in Physician Assistant Studies
Doctor of Psychology
Master of Social Work
Graduate programs in Rochester
Explore
Majors
Scholarships (First-Year)
Financial Aid
Campus Tour
Student Outcomes
About Augsburg Menu
About Augsburg
Map and Parking
Employment
President
University Leadership
Awards and Rankings
News and Media
Academics Menu
Academics
Majors and Programs
Arts and Sciences
Professional Studies
Library
Registrar
Career Services
Student Life
Alumni and Donors
Search Augsburg.edu
Office of the President
Office of the President website menu
Go
Home
University Initiatives
Homilies
Notes for the Reflective Practitioner
Presentations and Publications
Blog
Paul C. Pribbenow, Ph.D.
Paul Pribbenow, the 10th president of Augsburg University, a private liberal arts university associated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America and located in Minneapolis, is recognized as one of the country’s most engaging commentators and teachers on ethics, philanthropy, and American public life.
Since joining Augsburg in 2006, Pribbenow has enhanced the university’s role as an active community partner in its urban setting. By identifying and embracing initiatives that mutually benefit Augsburg and its neighbors, the university has achieved national recognition for its excellence in service learning and experiential education. Pribbenow also has become a leader among the 26 colleges and universities of the ELCA, helping to articulate the gifts shaping and supporting Lutheran higher education in the 21st century.
Under his leadership, Augsburg has changed its name from Augsburg College to Augsburg University, recognizing its expansive academic mission serving undergraduate and graduate students on campus and at locations around the world. Augsburg’s Board of Regents was awarded the 2017 John W. Nason Award for Board Leadership for efforts including initiating an inclusive, five-year strategic planning effort and leading the institution’s largest-ever capital campaign. Pribbenow played a key role in Augsburg’s most successful capital campaign, which raised more than $55 million to construct the Norman and Evangeline Hagfors Center for Science, Business, and Religion, which opened January 2018.
In 2019, Pribbenow led Augsburg University in the development of a new strategic plan, Augsburg150, that anchors the institution’s priorities and initiatives. Furthering the university’s top priorities, Augsburg150 is focused on three key areas: strengthening Augsburg’s three-dimensional education (educating students to make a living, make a life, and build community), advancing the public purposes of an Augsburg education, and growing as a sustainable university.
Pribbenow serves on the national boards of the Coalition for Urban and Metropolitan Universities and the Council of Independent Colleges. He is also active in the Anchor Institutions Task Force. Locally, he chairs the Cedar-Riverside Partnership and the Central Corridor Anchor Partnership and serves on the Minnesota Governor’s Workforce Development Board and the executive committee of the Minnesota Private College Council.
Pribbenow was honored to be named the 2019 Outstanding Fundraising Professional by the Association of Fundraising Professionals. The award recognizes effective, creative, and stimulating fundraising leadership as well as the practice and promotion of ethical fundraising.
Pribbenow received the William Burke Award for Presidential Leadership in Experiential Education from the National Society for Experiential Education in 2012. He was named a McCormick Presidential Civic Leader Fellow for 2003–04 and 2005–06. And, under Pribbenow’s leadership, Augsburg University became the first higher education institution in Minnesota to earn the prestigious Presidential Award for Community Service, the highest honor possible for service work.
Before coming to Augsburg, Pribbenow served as president of Rockford College (now Rockford University) in Rockford, Illinois. He also has served as a research fellow for the Center of Inquiry in the Liberal Arts at Wabash College (Indiana), dean for College Advancement and secretary of the Board of Trustees at Wabash College, vice president of the School of the Art Institute of Chicago, and associate dean of the Divinity School of the University of Chicago.
Pribbenow holds a bachelor’s degree (1978) from Luther College (Iowa) and a master’s degree (1979) and doctorate (1993) in social ethics from the University of Chicago. He received the Distinguished Service Award at Luther College in 2008.
Pribbenow is the author of numerous articles on philanthropy, ethics, and not-for-profit management. He publishes a bimonthly email newsletter titled, “Notes for the Reflective Practitioner.”
Pribbenow lives in Minneapolis with his wife, Abigail Crampton Pribbenow, and their two children, Thomas and Maya.
University Leadership
Become an Auggie
Learn more about Augsburg and how to apply.
Get Started
Undergraduate Admissions
Adult Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Rochester
All Majors and Programs
Campus Tour
Athletics
Fine Arts
Residence Life
Study Abroad
Transcripts
Campus Safety (DPS)
Maps and Locations
Virtual Tour
Inside Augsburg
News and Media
Employment
Augsburg Now
Make a Gift
A-Z Directory
Consumer Disclosures
Accreditation
Report an Accessibility Issue
Privacy Policy
About Internet-Based Advertising
Contact Augsburg
Copyright © 2020 Augsburg University | Minneapolis, MN | 612-330-1000
Administrator Login
The Augsburg University website uses cookies to make your browsing experience as useful as possible. In order to have the full site experience, keep cookies enabled on your web browser. By browsing our site with cookies enabled, you are agreeing to their use. Review Augsburg's privacy policy for more details. Ok
