Explore
Billionaires
All Billionaires
World's Billionaires
Forbes 400
America's Richest Self-Made Women
China's Richest
India's Richest
Indonesia's Richest
Korea's Richest
Thailand's Richest
Japan's Richest
Australia's Richest
Taiwan's Richest
Singapore's Richest
Philippines' Richest
Hong Kong's Richest
Malaysia's Richest
Money & Politics
2020 Money
Innovation
All Innovation
5G
AI
Amazon Web Services BrandVoice | Paid Program
AWS Infrastructure Solutions BrandVoice | Paid Program
Big Data
Cloud
Cloud 100
Consumer Tech
Cybersecurity
Enterprise Tech
Games
Green Tech
Healthcare
Japan BrandVoice | Paid Program
Jumio BrandVoice | Paid Program
SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program
Science
ServiceNow BrandVoice | Paid Program
Social Media
Tableau BrandVoice | Paid Program
T-Mobile For Business BrandVoice | Paid Program
Venture Capital
Leadership
All Leadership
Careers
CEO Network
CFO Network
CIO Network
CMO Network
Crowe BrandVoice | Paid Program
Deloitte BrandVoice | Paid Program
Diversity & Inclusion
Education
Forbes The Culture
ForbesWomen
Google Cloud BrandVoice | Paid Program
Leadership Strategy
Under 30
Working Remote
Money
All Money
Banking & Insurance
Crypto & Blockchain
ETFs & Mutual Funds
Fintech
Hedge Funds & Private Equity
Investing
Markets
New York Life Investments BrandVoice | Paid Program
Personal Finance
Premium Investing Newsletters
Retirement
Taxes
Tax-Smart Investing
Top Advisor | SHOOK
Wealth Management
Election 2020
Business
All Business
Aerospace & Defense
Business Reporter BrandVoice | Paid Program
Energy
Food & Drink
Hollywood & Entertainment
Honeywell BrandVoice | Paid Program
Manufacturing
Media
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries BrandVoice | Paid Program
Policy
Real Estate
Retail
SportsMoney
Transportation
Small Business
All Small Business
Business As (Un)usual
Entrepreneurs
Franchises
Small Business Strategy
Square BrandVoice | Paid Program
Lifestyle
All Lifestyle
Arts
Boats & Planes
Cars & Bikes
Dining
ForbesLife
Forbes Travel Guide
Spirits
Style & Beauty
Travel
Vices
Watches
Shopping
All Shopping
Forbes Coupons
Advisor
All Advisor
The Best Credit Cards Of 2020
Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards
Best Cash Back Credit Cards
Best 0% APR Credit Cards
Best Travel Credit Cards
Best Rewards Credit Cards
Best Business Credit Cards
Browse All Credit Cards
Best Travel Insurance Companies
Best Life Insurance Companies
Best Car Insurance Companies
Whole Life Insurance
Best Personal Loans
Best Student Loans
Best Student Loan Refinance
Student Loan Refinance Calculator
Auto Loan Calculator
Best Savings Accounts
Best Money Market Accounts
Best Checking Accounts
Best CD Rates
Best Online Banks
Best ID Theft Protection Companies
Second Stimulus Check Calculator
Wheels
All Wheels
Lists
All Lists
Video
All Video
Newsletters
Daily Dozen Briefing
Crypto Confidential
Editorial Newsletters
Investing Digest
Premium Investing Newsletters
Forbes Magazine
All Forbes Magazine
Forbes Asia
Free Issue of Forbes
Latest
Coronavirus Coverage
Daily Cover Stories
Dark Capital
Editors' Picks
Election 2020
Visual Web Stories
Featured
30 Under 30 2020
30 Under 30: A Decade Of Disruption
All Hands On Data - A Tableau Series | Paid Program
Antidote For Uncertainty
BCG With Forbes Insights
DNA Of Success
DocuSign With Forbes Insights | Paid Program
EY & Citi On The Importance Of Resilience And Innovation | Paid Program
Impact 50: Investors Seeking Profit — And Pushing For Change
Forbes AgTech+ Under 30 Hackathon
Forbes Analytics Plus With Teradata | Paid Program
Nuveen With Forbes Insights | Paid Program
Office Depot OfficeMax BrandVoice | Paid Program
Paste by WeTransfer BrandVoice | Paid Program
ServiceNow Brandvoice | Paid Program
St. Jude BrandVoice | Paid Program
Square BrandVoice | Paid Program
The World's Most Influential CMOs
Voices Of Success
Advertise with Forbes
All Advertise with Forbes
Report a Security Issue
Site Feedback
Tips
Corrections
Privacy
Terms
AdChoices
Reprints & Permissions
© 2020 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved
Create Account
|
Sign In
BETA
This is a BETA experience. You may opt-out by clicking here
Edit Story
Editors' Pick ||
Sep 21, 2020,
01:44am EDT
Nikola Founder Trevor Milton Resigns After Short-Seller’s Fraud Accusations
Alan Ohnsman Forbes Staff
Transportation
Share to Facebook
Share to Twitter
Share to Linkedin
Nikola founder Trevor Milton at the groundbreaking for the company's factory in Coolidge, Arizona, ... [+] in July.
Nikola Motor
Trevor Milton , the founder of upstart hydrogen truckmaker Nikola Corp., has resigned as executive chairman and from its board in the wake of allegations by an analyst with a short position in the company’s stock who had accused him of misrepresenting its technology and capabilities prior to going public. Board member Steve Girsky, a former General Motors vice chairman, replaces him as chairman.
“I asked the Board of Directors to let me step aside from my roles as Executive Chairman and a member of the Nikola Board of Directors,” Milton tweeted late Sept. 20. “The focus should be on the Company and its world-changing mission, not me. I intend to defend myself against false allegations leveled against me by outside detractors.”
Nikola “is in amazing hands and the executive team is well-equipped to lead the Company into the future,” he said. The brash, 38-year-old entrepreneur is Phoenix-based Nikola’s largest shareholder with a stake of more than 20% that Forbes estimates is worth $2.7 billion as of Sept. 21. (Trucking industry news site Freightwaves broke the news of Milton’s departure, citing people close to the matter who weren’t identified.)
The news led Nikola shares to plunge nearly 30% at the start of Nasdaq trading. They fell 19% to close at $27.58.
Recommended For You
Don’t Fall For The Self-Charging Hybrid Con
Tesla’s ‘Full Self-Driving’ Is 99.9% There, Just 1,000 Times Further To Go
Trying To Prevent Narco Self-Driving Cars That Act As Drug Mules
Nikola was stung by accusations of fraud and misrepresentation in a Sept. 10 report by Hindenburg Research, a financial research firm run by analyst Nate Anderson . Among its allegations, the “ breakthrough ” battery system Milton said the company was working on last year doesn’t exist and Nikola claimed to have designed technology and vehicle components purchased from other manufacturers as its own. “We have never seen this level of deception at a public company, especially of this size,” Anderson said. 
Nikola released a  detailed rebuttal  refuting some, though not all, of the issues raised in the report which the truckmaker says was timed to benefit the author’s bet the hydrogen truckmaker’s stock would fall. Nikola contacted the Securities and Exchange Commission about the report and both it and the Justice Department are reportedly reviewing the company. Neither agency is commenting.
Nikola says it’s undergone “extensive due diligence processes” by numerous industrial companies it’s partnered with, including Bosch, Hanwha Group, CNH 
CNHI
 Industrial and General Motors
GM
, and financial backers ValueAct Capital and VectoIQ Acquisition Corp., the company it merged with to go public in June. It called the report by Hindenburg Research “false and defamatory.”
Girsky, a veteran financial analyst, helped orchestrate Nikola’s public listing through its merger with VectoIQ and introduced Nikola to partner General Motors.
Trevor Milton
Tim Pannell for Forbes
Milton patterned himself to some extent after Tesla’s
TSLA
Elon Musk, making brash statements and boasts about Nikola’s hydrogen and battery tech and lashing out at critics on social media. He gave up the CEO role in June when Nikola listed its shares on Nasdaq
NDAQ
with the more buttoned-down Mark Russell, Milton’s mentor during his time at Worthington Industries, taking the job.
(For more on Nikola and Trevor Milton, see  “Behind New Billionaire Trevor Milton’s $3 Billion Push To Make America Run On Hydrogen”  from the September 30, 2019 issue of Forbes magazine.)
“Our priorities remain unchanged and, in collaboration with our partners, we are laser-focused on executing on our strategic initiatives and laying the groundwork to become a vertically integrated zero-emissions transportation solutions provider,” Russell said in a statement.
The Hindenburg report came two days after Nikola shares surged 41% with its announcement of a broad technology and production partnership with General Motors, that gave the largest U.S. auto an 11% stake in the young company.
“When you build a team as a leader, you have to remember that you are the least important person,” Milton said. “You have to hire smarter people than yourself and remember that the Company’s mission is greater than you are.”
As part of his separation agreement, Milton gave up 4.86 million shares he was granted on Aug. 21, 2020 and can no longer accept a two-year consulting arrangement with the company that would have paid him $10 million a year, Nikola said in an SEC filing Monday. Some 1.07 million shares owned by Milton vesting in June 2023 will be given to 300 employees he designated to receive them, assuming they’re still with Nikola at that time. Milton’s agreement also allows for the accelerated vesting of 600,000 restricted stock units he was awarded last month, according to the filing.
Follow me on  Twitter  or  LinkedIn . Send me a secure  tip . 
Alan Ohnsman
From Los Angeles, the U.S. capital of cars and congestion, I try to make sense of technology-driven changes reshaping transportation, cities and how we get around. Find
…
 Read More
From Los Angeles, the U.S. capital of cars and congestion, I try to make sense of technology-driven changes reshaping transportation, cities and how we get around. Find me on Twitter at @alanohnsman
 Read Less
Print
Reprints & Permissions
