Home
About
Welcome
Q-Training
Q-News
Careers
Our Industry
Contact
Quadrant Marine Institute
Home
About
Welcome
Q-Training
Q-News
Careers
Our Industry
Contact
Our Directors and Instructors
Quadrant was founded in 1999 by a group of boatyard owner/managers and other recreational marine professionals who began training their own employees in the early 1990’s. Their training program became recognized by the Province of British Columbia, Canada, as the Marine Repair Technician apprenticeship in 1998. The name was changed to Marine Service Technician (MST) in 2011.
Quadrant Directors
Quadrant Directors are active in management of the institute, teaching, and consulting in marine industry trades training and workplace competency assessment.
Featured
CAMPBELL BLACK
Quadrant President and founder of Blackline Marine , a leading composites repair, rigging, custom metal fabrication and refinishing facility. Campbell’s specialty is in fabrication and repair of advanced composites structures. He teaches composites technology and business practices.
PETER DAHL
Vice President, technical writer and consultant in adult education, trades training and apprenticeship. Peter is the primary writer of most Quadrant publications in consultation with industry experts.
BEN GARTSIDE
Lifetime mechanical technician and President of Gartside Marine Engines , engine installation and repair facility for pleasure boats and light commercial craft. Ben’s specialty is small marine diesel engines and inboard installations.
PAUL GARTSIDE
Internationally recognized designer-builder and marine architect. Owner of  Paul Gartside Ltd.  Paul has developed the technical materials for the Design section of the program as well as being a major contributor to the Woodworking technical resources.
DREW IRWIN
President of  Philbrook’s Boatyard  one of the Pacific Northwest’s largest yacht building, repair and refit yards, with a lifetime in large project management. Drew teaches in the Business Practices area, especially project management and environmental protection.
MATT SCHINBEIN
MST and Assistant Service Manager at  Blackline Marine . Matt is expert in composites repair and refinishing projects and teaches composites technology plus a range of tools and installations topics at Quadrant.
SARAH WHITE
MST, Service Manager and Marine Surveyor partner in Yacht Associates International . Sarah has spent more than two decades in the marine service industry exploring everything from how boats are built to the people who use and service them. She teaches business practices in Vancouver.
BRIAN RENIX
Managing Partner at Yacht Care Systems ,  Vancouver's leading yacht management company.  His career reflects more than 35 years of experience in both the commercial and recreational marine sectors.  Brian has played an active role in the administration of the Marine Service Technician apprenticeship since 2014.
Roger Boulet
MST, ABYC and NMEA certified installer, and Owner/Operator of Pilot Marine Yacht Services specializing in marine systems installations. Roger has 30+ years in the marine industry. He teaches Safety & Trade Math in Vancouver.
Current Instructors/Contributors
Quadrant instructors and contributors to our learning resources publications  are experts with long-term careers and high level skills in the recreational marine industry.
Featured
Gord Allan: MST, NMEA certified installer and partner at Bayview Yachts Sales & Service in Sidney. He has owned and repaired boats his whole life, with 20+ years in industry. Gord teaches electrical and plumbing installations.
Scott Allan: MST with more than 18 years experience in the recreational marine industry both building and servicing yachts. Scott works at Blackline Marine Inc. in Sidney and teaches composite technologies and structures.
Darcy Baine, MST, owner of Baine Marine in Campbell River. Darcy has more than 24 years experience in the marine industry, loves boating and enjoys the variety of work. He teaches onboard system installations in Nanaimo.
Brendan Burgess: MST and shipwright at Commodores Boats in Vancouver. Brendan started his career in boatbuilding in the UK.
Brook Butler: MST specializes in mechanical installations at Vector Yacht Services for more than a decade. He teaches Outboard Installations.
Serge Gabilondo: MST, Sailboat rigging and metal fabrication specialist at Blackline Marine Inc. He has 20+ years in industry and enjoys new material applications. Serge teaches metalwork & corrosion control.
Mark Gilbert: Owner/Operator of MG Yacht Services and a partner in Yacht Associates International marine surveyors. Mark has 40+ years in the marine industry; he teaches sailboat rigging.
Les Gunderson: Master wood boat Shipwright for 55+ years. He is an unparalleled expert in wood construction and repair. Boats are his pleasure in life; he teaches wood structures and repair in Vancouver.
Jason Gunn: MST, MMT, NMEA certified installer for 20+ years with Victoria General Marine . He enjoys fishing off the west coast and cruising the Gulf Islands. Jason teaches Electrical and Electronics in Sidney.
Eric Jespersen: Journeyman Boatbuilder & President of Jespersen Boatbuilders . He enjoys sailboat racing, cruising & working with clients who are enjoying their boating hobby. Eric teaches Design & Lofting.
Keenan Laing: Owner/Operator of KPL Marine in Vancouver. He has 30+ years experience in mechanical work, specializing in diesel powered yachts. Keenan teaches System Installations in Vancouver.
Ralph Pressner: Red Seal Heavy Duty Mechanic with 35 years working with marine power and propulsion systems. He works for Desolation Sound Yacht Charters enjoying the people and challenges in this industry. Ralph teaches mechanical installations in Nanaimo.
Stuart MacKenzie: owner of Comox Marine & Woodworking built his first boat at 15 and has worked on them his whole life. He has chartered boats around the world and loves the places that can be explored by boat. He teaches electrical systems in Nanaimo.
Paul Magas: Composites Department Manager at Platinum Marine , He has 30+ years in the marine industry and enjoys everything related to boats. Paul teaches composite technology in Vancouver.
Pete Medley: has been in this industry for 40 years and specializes in mechanical installations for Vector Yacht Services in Sidney. He values understanding how things work and knows that all the fun adventures on boats start with the systems all working correctly. Pete teaches mechanical installations.
Andrea Morrison: MST, Kayak manufacture and repair specialist at Blackline Marine Inc. Andrea has 15+ years experience in industry and enjoys keeping up with changes in technology.
Jim Normey: MST, Cabinetmaker, Accredited Marine Surveyor/owner of Nordik Marine Surveyors Inc ., BEd. Vocational Education has more than 20 years experience in marine trades and adult industrial education having completed projects around the world. Jim is Quadrant’s Chief Instructor.
Tad Roberts: has spent 34 years specializing in marine design and naval architecture. He’s a ‘life-long certified boat nut’ and runs his own company, Tad Roberts Design . Tad teaches design in Nanaimo.
Alex Strong: MST and Yacht Park Manager at Van Isle Marina in Sidney. For 15 years he’s enjoyed the variety and rewarding work successfuly diagnosing, repairing, and delivering a project on time and on budget. Alex teaches paint, trade math, and environmental protection.
Trevor Smith: has been a boater his whole life with 7 years experience at Granville Island Boatyard and 3 years managing a busy boatyard. He teaches Hauling, Blocking & Securing in Vancouver.
Kelly Thody: Owner/Operator of Total Boat Marine Surveyors , specialists in damage assessment and overseeing construction and repairs. He has spent 35+ years in the industry and enjoys cruising, sailing, and racing.
Geoff Thorner: Owner of GT Marine Electric in Vancouver. He has 15 years experience creating safe, industry standard solutions to the complex marine electrical and electronic systems on vessels. Geoff teaches marine electronics in Vancouver.
Rob Trelford: MST, Paint and Coating Technology specialist at Blackline Marine Inc. He has 20+ years in industry and enjoys the opportunity to learn new technologies. Rob teaches refinish technology.
Nick Webster: 34 years in the marine industry and an owner of Stones Boatyard . Nick is passionate about this industry and teaches paint and docking, hauling, blocking in Nanaimo.
Steve White: has spent 45 years in the marine industry in many roles from operations manager to owning Steve White Rigging . He loves the challenges and interesting clients. Steve teaches rigging in Nanaimo.
Past Instructors/Contributors
Quadrant gratefully acknowledges our past instructors contributions to our program materials and the careers of our graduates.
Alex Brydon: Naval Architect & Owner of Merlion Marine for 40 taught Design in Vancouver from 2008 to 2018.
Tyler Caddell: Professional Marine Restoration & Repair instructor at Parkland Secondary School in Sidney.
Kris Campbell: MST, MMT, was the mechanical lead hand at Philbrook’s Boatyard before he moved his career to Nova Scotia.
Rob Carlow: MST, Boat builder for 20+ years and manager at Jespersen Boat Builders for 14 years.
Jeff Cote: Systems Design Engineer, Owner of Pacific Yacht Systems , NMEA Advanced Installer & instructor for Western Canada.
Paul Gibson: MST at Blackline Marine with expertise in high performance composites, rigging and metal fabrication.
Bert Haupt: Wood boat repair and building specialist & Professional woodworking instructor at Belmont Secondary School .
Brent Jacobi: Rigging & Metal Fabrication manager / partner at Blackline Marine Inc. in Sidney.
Geoff Macklin: Owner/Operator Superstition Boatworks , specializing in composites repair and refinishing.
Reed Radziszewski: Owner of Shipwright Reed Ltd. MST/Shipwright, specializes in marine woodwork and wood boat repairs.
 
Back To Top
Our Team
Our Approach
Follow Q-News
Subject Areas
COVID-19 Policy
Quadrant Marine Institute Inc., #7-2300 Canoe Cove Road, Sidney, BC, V8L 3X9, Canada250-656-2824
 
 
Cart (0)
